Or. Oh. Oh. Alright,  I  got  310. So  I'm  gonna  get  started. I  I'm  Yeah,  I'm  gonna  get  started. So  it's  a  fateful  day  in  thermynamics. Wnt  entropy?  It's  not gonna  bring  many  of  you  much  joy. Okay.  But  this  weekend, for  the  first  time,  I  think  in  Cal  history, they  have  college  game  Day. So  this  university  is for  those  who  don't  know, is  going  to  be  the  center  of the  sporting  universe  in  the  United  States. So  for  those  who  care, it's  awe  play  Miami  on  Saturday. Other  sports  are  doing  w  women's  soccer, I  think  is  doing  amazing,  too. But  yeah,  so  um  We're  talking  now. Again, here's  what  we're  going  to  be  able  to  do. So  we're  through,  like  I  said, Module  one  in  the  first  law, we've  entered  into  second  law. And  as  part  of  the  second  law, we  had  discussed  things  about, we're  talking  about  efficiencies and  trying  to  maximize  the  amount of  work  out  for  heat  transferred  in, and  what  we  realized  in  that  is  that  it's not  possible  ever  for a  cycle  to  convert  100%  of the  work  out  for  an  amount  of  heat  in,  right? I  can't  just  put  heat  in  and  get  100% of  work  out. And  we  noticed  that  when we  had  transferred  heat  in, that  we  changed  something  in  the  system, and  we  basically  had  to  transfer  heat. And  today,  I'm,  you know,  you  should  have  done  some  reading, but  we're  going  to  talk  about  this  concept of  NRP  to  help us  deal  with  the  fact that  we're  making  some  changes, especially  some  irreversible  ones. So  first  an  example,  right? So  say  you  have a  two  systems  like  this,  System  one, which  I  have  Romanumeral  one, and  system  two  Romanumeral  two. Let's  say  that  this  system is  at  T  one,  this  is  at  T  two. And  let's  say  that  these are  thermal  reservoirs. Right?  So,  what's  a  thermal  reservoir? Sure. It's  good. Do  we  have  another  definition? Yes,  please.  Name  Mark. Small  amount  There  we  go. Or  a  small  amount of  heat  without  changing  temperature. And  what  if  I  made  that  a  very, very  big  object? Yeah,  I  can  absorb  an  amount  more  with  it. So  for  the  purposes  here, it  means  we  we're  going  to  do  heat  additions or  heat  subtractions, and  the  temperatures  are  not going  to  change,  right? So  if  I  transfer  heat  out  of  this  system, it  will  remain  T  one. And  if  I  transfer heat  in  or  out  of  this  system, it  will  remain  as  T  two. So  we  now  take  these  two  reservoirs, and  we  connect  them,  right? We  basically  bring  them  into  contact  there. And  let's  say  that  T  one is  greater  than  T  two,  right? So  what  we  expect  is  that there  will  be  heat  transferred  from  T  one, spontaneously  from  thermal  reservoir one  into  thermal  reservoir  two. So  we  have  some  amount  of  heat  transferred  Q. Alright? Good.  And  what  we're  interested  to  know, so  we  have  these  three  questions. So  what's  the  change  in  entropy  of  each  body? What's  the  change?  So  body  here  refers to  each  of  the  systems  here. So  we  can  say  this  is  system  one. So  what's  the  change  in  Delta  S  one? And  we  can  do  the  same  thing  here. We  can  draw  another  control  volume. All  right.  And  we  can  say, this  is  Delta  S  two. So  then  what's  the  change  in the  change  in  body  one,  change  in  Body  two. And  then  what  is  also  the  change in  Delta  S  system, but  if  I  was  drawing  like  a  box, maybe  it  looks  like  this  then  here. We  call  this  one,  the  system. Okay.  And  then  the  final  question  is, is  this  process  reversible,  right? Cool.  Alright. Alright.  So  to  calculate the  change  in  entropy, the  first  thing  we  have  to  recognize. Let  me  pull  this  back  over  just for  the  video  crowd. Is  that  because  of  this,  right, we  have  an  expectation that  we're  going  to  have  a  queue that's  moving  from  here,  right  into  here. Alright?  Good.  So  the  change, so  Q  or,  let's  say, DS  is  by  definition  equal  to  the  amount of  heat  transferred  divided by  the  temperature  that the  heat  is  transferred from  or  to  within  it,  right? If  you're  looking  at  me  sideways  and that's  not  familiar, I'd  recommend  that  have  a, have  a  look  at  at  Chapter  Chapter  seven. I  think  it's  Chapter  seven  now  in  the  book. Anyways  the  entropy  chapter  goes  through  it, I  have  a  few  I have  a  set  of  slides and  stuff  that  are  also  there. So  you  have  this  is  how  we relate  then  changes  in entropy  to  heat  transfer.  Alright? Um  Is  there  a  question?  Yes,  please. T  is  T.  No,  no,  no,  no,  no. T  is  T.  T  is  T.  Alright? This  is  an  absolute  temperature  here. Yes,  please. Yeah.  So  this  is entropy  is  a  property,  right? So  just  like  pressure  was  a  property, V  was  a  property,  we  wrote  with  this. Q  depends  on  knowledge  of  the  process,  right? We  need  to  know knowledge  of  detailed  knowledge of  of  the  process. Let  me  even  take  it  a  bit  further. Remember  when  we  were  doing  things like  what  we  doing? We're  doing  something  like  Delta  W is  equal  to  P  DV, and  we'd  like  integrate. And  when  we  had full  knowledge  of  the  relationship between  P  and  V,  we  could  get  that,  right? And  then  it  was  W,  let's say  it  was  a  constant  pressure. You  take  the  P  out  of  it,  right? Then  it's  just  the  integral  of  DV. And  let's  say  it's  P  V  two  minus  V  one. Right?  In  the  same  way, re  in  a  sense,  right? Let's  say  that  P  is  to  V  here,  for  example, is  maybe  T  is  to  Q, sort  of  kind  of  not  a  great  analogy, but  something  like  that.  Okay. Other  questions?  Alright. So  there's  our  formula. Yeah.  So  in  order  to  do  this, we're  going  to  have  to  integrate. And  let's  say  first  that  we  deal with  we  deal  with  system  one. So  integrate  from  state  one  to  state  two. We  can  recognize  that in  the  transfer  process, as  we're  transferring  heat  out  of  this, that  temperature  does  not  change, so  we'll  have  a  one  over T  one  is  then  the  integral  of D  Q  there,  right? And  so  at  the  end  then, this  is  just  then  going  to  be  Q. So  that  amount  of heat  that  we  transferred  out, divided  divided  by  T  one. Good.  The  thing  we  have  to  pay  attention, though,  with  this, when  I'm  integrating  like  that is  to  recognize  that  we are  taking  heat  out  though,  right? So  we're  taking  heat,  and  we're  transferring, again,  for  the  online  crowd, we're  taking  heat  from here  and  we're  transferring  out when  we're  looking  just  at  this  system. And  so  what  sign  would  you  expect  here? Negative.  Alright.  All  right. So  you'd  expect  then a  negative  a  negative  sign, and  then  the  way  that  we  write  this  right, is  that  we  have  this  S  two  minus  S  one, and  then  this  is  applied  for  the  system  one, or  we  can  simply  write  this  as  let's say  a  Delta  S  one. Alright?  Good. All  right.  So  now we  looked  then  at  system two,  so  we  repeat  the  same  thing. So  this  is  then  for  system  two. So  we  go  from  our  state  one  to state  two  of  ds, or  integral  of  D  Q divided  by  T.  In  this  case, we're  transferring  heat  in,  right? So  there's  heat  being  transferred into  system  two, and  the  temperature  is  at  T  two. And  that  T  two  is a  thermal  reservoir. It  doesn't  change,  right? So  we  can  pull  that  out  of  the  integral. So  we  have  a  one  over  t  two. Integral  of  DQ,  which  is then  just  going  to  be  a  Q  divided  by  t  two. And  now  we're  transferring  heat  in,  right? We're  looking  at  system  two, the  control  volume  on  the  right. So  heat  is  in,  and  therefore, it's  positive.  All  right? It's  positive.  So  what is  the  change  in  the  entropy  of  each  body? This  is  then  equal  to  Delta  S  two,  right? So  the  change  in  the  entropy  of the  system  one,  it's  negative. You  have  a  reduction  in  entropy. You  can  say  to  yourself, that  doesn't  sound  right? And  I  can  tell  you  if the  system  is  not  isolated,  right? If  I  can  transfer  heat  out  of  it, I  can  reduce  the  entropy  of  it. So  it  is  possible to  have  a  reduction  in  entropy  of  system  one. That  is  then  at  the  expense  of an  increase  in  the  entropy  then, right  of  system  two. So  all  of  that  sort  of  makes  sense. What's  the  change  in the  entropy  of  the  system? So  the  change  in  the  entropy then  of  the  system? Right.  So  Delta  S  system. So  System  refers  to the  the  combined  system  one  and  system two  together.  You  add  them,  right? We're  going  to  add  the  entropy  of  system  one. We're  going  to  add  the  entropy  of  system  two, so  that's  Delta  S  one  plus  Delta  S  two, which  is  going  to  be  equal to  for  this  one,  right, it's  negative  Q  divided  by  t  one plus  Q  divided  by  T  two. Which  we  can  rearrange. I  can  write  this  as  Q times  one  over  t  two  minus  s, one  over  T  one. All  right.  So  that's  going  to  be the  change  Delta  S  system. So  that's  the  change  in  the  entropy of  our  system. And  the  final  question  is,  that is  this  process  reversible? To  do  that,  we  can  do  a  bit of  We  can  do  a  bit  of  rearranging. So  I  can  say  here  that  the  Delta  S  system, if  I  multiply  top  and  bottom  by  t  one, top  and  bottom  by  t  two. What  I'm  going  to  have  is  Q  times  t  one minus  t  two  divided  by  t  one  times  t  two. Because  if  t  one and  t  two  is  the  same  denominator  and  that, And  the  point  is  that  if T  one  is  greater  than  T  two? This  implies  that  since Q  according  to  my  convention he  is  a  positive  quantity. So  then  my  Delta  S  system is  also  g  than  zero. And  so  if  the  entropy, if  I  generate  a  net  entropy, if  I  generate  positive entropy  during  a  process, do  you  believe  that  it's  reversible  or  not? All  right.  So  it's  not  in  words, but  we  accept  all  sorts of  body  language  here. So  we  have  no  from  the back  of  the  room,  and  that's  right. This  is  not  reversible.  Right?  So  this implies  that  it's  not  reversible. All  right.  I  told you  wouldn't  like  me,  right? So  that's  it.  All  right? That's  an  example  of  working  with. Are  any  questions  about  that  example? Yes,  please  in  the  back? Alex,  So  entropy  is  say  it  again. Sorry.  Alright,  so  let me  answer  this  in  the  Alright. So  here  we  have system  one,  we  have  System  two. And  then  we  bring them  together,  but  this  is  closed. So  I  don't  have  any  energy  exchange happening  between the  entire  systems  and  the  outside. So  this  entropy  change  is  for the  combined  systems  of  system one  and  system  two  together. Okay.  It's  a  good  question,  though. Alright.  Other  questions  about  this? Yes,  p.  Alexander,  yes. Say  that  one  more  time.  On  a  mid  term, yes.  Which  mid  term  do  you  think? Two.  Thank  you. To  wake  you  up, I  should  always  lead  with  that,  right? This  might  be.  No,  we're  not  covering. This  is  on  the  second  module  of  the  course, which  is  then  for  mid  term  two. Maybe  potentially  covered  also  in  the  final. Finals  fair  game.  I  can ask  whatever  I  want  in  the  final. So,  like  the  final  score of  Saturday's  game,  right? All  right.  Other  questions. Great.  Alright.  So  what's  next? All  right.  So  to  the  Pedro,  right? Or?  Yeah.  So  to  the  point  that  he  brought  up there  about  entropy,  it's  a  property,  right? It's  like  enthalpy. Remember  we  went  to  the  tables, you  looked  up  enthalpy,  you looked  up  internal  energy. U  For  any  substance  at  this  point  on  the, you  know,  PTV,  TS, whatever  diagrams.  It's  definable,  right? You  can  go  in,  look  it  up  and  and  define  it. We're  going  to  work  with  this  is  again, 11  of  those  diagrams. This  is  the  TS  diagram. It's  a  very  common. It's  a  very  common  diagram. You're  going  to  get  familiar  with  this. We're  going  to  use  this  when  we  analyze basically  all  the  cycles, but  essentially  power  cycles  and refrigeration  cycles  there,  right? So  it's  going  to  be  very  common  to  use. Just  like  the  other  ones,  right? So  at  the  low  entropy for  a  fixed  temperature, you  have  a  liquid  state. As  you  move  up,  an  entropy, let's  say  for  a  constant  temperature, you're  ending  up  with  a  vapor, right?  Which  might  make  sense. If  you  think  about  DS  being  sort  of  a  Q  T, you  can  sort  of  get  the  understanding that  there's  a  relationship,  right? That  entropy  and  heat  are sort  of  intimately  related. As  I  told  you  before, right?  We  contrived  this. You  know,  Klaus  has  contrived this  whole  thing  because he  was  trying  to  understand, right,  in  order  for  me  to  get  work  out by  heat  and  I  have  to  take  heat  out,  right? So  the  other  way  you  can  look  at this  with  entrap  is  that we're  saying  that  heat  has  a  quality  to  it. All  right?  So  if  I'm transferring  heat  from something  at  high  temperature, that  has  a  high  quality,  right? I  can  do  a  lot  with  it. There's  a  lot  of  utility. Heat  from  a  reservoir that's  transferred  from  a  reservoir, something  that's  at  low  temperature, it's  not  really  that  useful,  al  right? And  so  that's  the  other  way  of interpreting  the first  and  the  second  law,  right? The  first  law  says  that  energy  is  conserved. And  the  second  law, the  other  way  of  looking  at  is  to say  that  energy  has  quality  to  it,  right? A  quality  all  its  own,  right? And  that  the  higher  the temperature  that  it's  at, the  more  useful  that  it  will  be  for  you. A  right? Cool. Yes,  please.  More  approximate. Yeah,  you  can  get  into  this. This  is  not  really,  so that's  a  good  Mx,  right? Yeah,  that's  a  good  catch  there. I  think  if  we  look  at  the  electronic  tables, you  don't  make  approximations. You  put  in  values,  you  get  numbers. But  when  you  would  be  old  school and  use  the  book  tables, it's  very  difficult  to determine properties  in  the  compressed  liquid, basically  in  the  liquid  region  at  all. They're  not  usually  tabulated. And  so  the  reason  is  that  there's  not really  a  lot  of  variation  here. And  so  what  you  would  do  is  you'd  say,  okay, if  I'm  in  the  liquid  region  historically, and  I  know  my  temperature and  my  pressure  there. For  the  book  tables,  you  would  say,  Okay, there's  not  going  to  be  a  whole  list of  tables  with  the  ps  and  the  Ts  there. So  you'd  say  that  my  entropy  is  approximately equal  to  the  entropy  of  a liquid  at  that  temperature. But  if  you  work  with  electronic  tables, you  don't  have  to  sacrifice  anything. You  just  go  in,  you  put  T  and P  and  forget  it. You  have  the  number. But  that's  a  good  question. Alright.  And  then  yeah, just  to  remember  that the  X  is  the  quality,  right? So  X  zero  here,  right? Zero,  and  then  here  it's  one. Alright?  Alright.  For  another  example? Yes,  inspired.  Cool.  All  right. All  right.  So  our  next  example  here, we're  going  to  look  at a  process  where  we  take, you  know,  that  familiar  piston that  we  had  transferring heat  in  at  constant  pressure. It  means  that  we  get  work  transferred  out. I'm  showing  you  that  process  here, so  we're  starting  at  a  temperature  of 20  degrees  C.  You see  from  this  diagram that  we're  in  the  liquid, And  so  what  I  showed  before, right  you're  in  the  liquid  region. And  on  this  diagram  here,  right  at  that  0.1, we  have  a  corresponding  entropy a  little  S  one. We  transfer  heat  in,  we  bring  it up  to  0.2  here. And  we're  told  like  I  said, it's  a  constant  pressure  process, but  we're  not  told  the  temperature  there. We're  not  told  any  other  sort  of thermodynamic  property.  So  we  don't  know. We  don't  have  enough  information  there  yet  to determine  what  is  S  two. And  so  the  question  is,  what's the  change  in  entropy  during this?  We  know  everything  here. We  know  that  there's  some  heat  in. We  know  the  mass  that's  in  there, and  so  we  need  to  essentially determine  the  change  in energy  within  the  system, get  a  property  out  of  that. It's  going  to  be  enthalpy, and  then  we're  going  to  be  able  to  determine S  two  with  it,  right? Cool.  Let  me  look  at  my  O's  on  this  one. Just  to  check  if  I'm  missing  something  else. The  substance  is  water.  So  we're told  that  the  substance  is  water. And  we're  also  told  that  there's 1.5  kilograms  of  water  that's inside  of  the  system. If  you  didn't  know. So  here,  you  have  the  diagram. And  so  you  can  clearly  see  that you're  in  the  liquid  state. If  you  wanted  to  sort  of,  you  know, double  check  or  confirm that,  you  could  look,  you  know, within  the  tables  at,  what  is the  saturation  pressure  at T  one,  which  is  provided. And  what  you  would  see  is  that that's  23  k  KPA, so  your  pressure  is  basically, much  larger  than  that. So  you'd  expect  them  to  be  probably then  in  a  liquid  state  there. It's  an  aside,  a  lot  of  this, the  more  practice  you  get  with sort  of  working  with  these  numbers, you'll  have  intuition,  then  on sort  of  what  state  you're  starting with  on  it.  Is  there  a  question? Okay. Alright,  good.  So  we  have  the  T  one  and the  P  one  here. If  you  were  to  go  with,  with  this, and  because  we  know  it's  in a  liquid  state,  we  have  full  information. If  we  jump  over  and  look,  for  example, at  the  IAP  WS, the  steam  tables  calculator  here. So  we'd  have  this  Don't  fail  me  now.  Great. We  have  that.  So  we  give the  pressure  in  megapascals, the  temperature  in  Kelvin. We  can  define  the  class,  right? So  Water  one,  which  contains  all  the  details. So  P  and  T  are  there. And  so  we  can  get  the  entro  P, and  we're  also  interested in  the  enthalpy  as  you  see. So  the  P  out  of  this  S  one  is  equal  to  0.296. Kilojoules,  the  unit  is kilo  joules  per  kilogram  Kalvin. Kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  Calvin. There  is  the  unit of  entropy  that  comes  out  of  that. And  then  the  enthalpy  at  state one  on  here  is  84. I  have  84  point, let's  say,  05  kilos  per  per  kilogram. All  right.  Good. All  right.  So  that's  Step  one. Now  what  we  need  to  do  is  we  need  to  map from  right,  state  one  to  State  two. And  we  need  to  know  this  details about  the  ques,  right? The  cues  that  we're  we're  adding. All  right.  Oops. All  right.  So  if  I draw  now  my  control  volume, so  I  have  this,  with the  control  volume,  basically  here. But  if  I  do  if  I  draw my  control  volume  with  that, and  then  obviously,  the  control  volume  can expand  as  the  piston  moves  moves  up,  right? So  I  have  my  change. And  the  energy  of  the  system, the  control  volume  there  is  equal  to  the  E, right,  that  I  transfer  in  minus, the  E  that  I  take  that  I  take  out  there. This  would  be  the  change  in  the,  the  system. This  can  be  changes  in  internal  energy, changes  in  kinetic  energy, changes  in  potenta  shell  energy. This  is  a  system we're  not  transferring  mass  in, so  the  only  way  we  can  transfer  energy is  through  work  or  through  heat. So  I  could  have  a  W.  I  could  have  a  Q, and  then  this  would  be  minus  a  plus  a  Q  Q. We  don't  have  any  information to  indicate  that  we  care  about kinetic  or  potential  energy. So  those  are  gone. We  don't  have  any  indication that  heat  is  being transferred  out,  so  that's  gone. We  do  see  that  Q  is  in,  so  that  stays, and  we  don't  see  that  any  work is  being  transferred  in. But  because  it's  a  constant  pressure  process, and  with  this  configuration, we  do  have  an  expectation that  there's  going  to be  a  volume  displacement,  PDV. So  we  do  have  an  expectation that  there  will  be  a, you  know,  a  PDV  term  here. Pressure  is  constant  comes out  of  the  integral,  right? So  it's  just  the  integral  of  P  d  V,  right? Which  is  then  just  going  to  be  P  V  two minus  V  V  one  there,  right? The  QN  the  QN  remains. All  right.  So,  yeah, we  have  QN  Q  n  plus QN  Now  Q  minus  Q minus  P  V  two  minus  V  one  is  equal  to. I'm  going  to  expand  the  Delta  u. It's  going  to  be  internal  energy  two minus  internal  energy  one. We  can  move  the  ps and  the  vs  to  the  other  side. Then  our  Qn  is  going  to  be  equal to  u  two  plus  PV  two, two  p  p  v  two, and  then  minus  u  one, minus  or  plus  now because  this  is  going  to  be  a  positive, and  then  it's  a  negative  and  then  a  negative. So  basically  u  one  plus  P  v  one. What's  this? Delta  H  or  more  specifically, what  is  the  term  in  the  left  side?  H  two. A  capital  two  minus  H one  is  equal  to  Q  n.  Can  put  this, so  we  don't  really  work with  the  capital  Hs,  right? That's  what's  in  our  table. So  what  we  can  say  is that  we  know  the  mass,  right? That's  in  the  system, and  then  that's  Little  H two  minus  little  H  one  there. And  the  final  step  of  rearranging, right,  what  we  want  to  solve  for  is  H  two, because  we  already  know  P  two  up  here, so  we  know  the  P  two  there. And  so  if  we  determine  the  little  H  two, then  we  have  complete  information. Now  we  know  everything,  including the  entropy  at  state  two,  right? All  right.  So  then  H  two  is  equal  to  Q n  divided  by  m.  So  we  put  the  M  to  this  side, and  then  plus  H  one. All  right.  So  what  is  H  two? We  go  back  to  our  tables. All  right.  So  we  define. So  I  have  the  mass  in,  I  have the  Q  in  here  in  Kilo  joules. So  and  then  this  is  just  the  formula that  I've  written  here. QN  divided  by  m  plus  H  one.  So  you  run  that. You  have  that  value.  And  then now  that  I  know  H  two, and  I  know  that  P  one  is  equal  to  P  two. So  I  just  put  P  one  here, I  put  H  two  here. I  define  the  class  of  the  water  at  state  two, which  means  I  have  all  the  information. What's  the  temperature? Should  be  hotter,  right? So  it's  over  100  Celsius. What  do  we  start  off  with  20,  right? So  that  makes  sense  there. And  then  we  also  know  the  entropy. So  I  go  water  two  dot  S, and  then  I  have  the  entropy  value  there. So  my  S  two. So  by  knowing  P  two  and  H  two, I  can  determine  everything  including  S  two, and  my  little  S  two  is  6.6 0.777  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kalvin,  right? All  right.  That's  not  ideal. All  right.  We  only  have  one  more  step. So  then  Delta  S, the  big  Delta  S  then  is  equal to  M.  Little  S  two  minus  little  S  one. M  here  is  1.5  kilograms. S  two,  or  did  we  write  S  two, 6.777  kilos  per  kilogram  Kalvin. And  then  that's  minus. What  did  we  have  for  S  one? One  is  0.20  0.296 kilojoules  per  kilogram.  Calvin. And  if  we  put  that  all  together, my  numbers  show  that  I  have 9.72  kilos  per  Calvin. Y  kilojoules  per  Calvin because  you  have  the  mass  term which  knocks  that  out. Yes,  please.  You  will be  How  do  you  measure  the  entropy? There  is  no  thermometer  of  entropy. Alright?  But  I  can  ask  you  the  other  way. I've  given  you  some  information  here. I  give  you  a  thermometer  and  I  give  you tools  to  measure  you  know, with  thermometers,  I  can  measure,  you  know, temperature  gradients,  and  you can  know  thermal  conductivities  of  materials. If  I  told  you  that,  how  would you  measure  entropy  changes? Say  it  a  little  louder. Something  like  that.  Yeah,  but  it's not  this  is  also  why it's  one,  it's  terrible  to  learn. It's  also  kind  of  terrible  to  teach the  topic  because you  don't  have  any  intuition. I  think  it's  one  of  the  few  times  in engineering  where  really  there's  no  right? You  have,  like,  no  intuition about  what  this  is. I  mean,  it  starts  off  as a  mathematically  contrived  right  thing to  describe  what  I  told  you before  on  the  close  cycle. But  it's  actually  an  unbelievable  thing. So  they  did  this  all  from  machines. And  then  they  realized. So  that  was,  you  know,  that's  Saudi  Caro. And  even  Carno  did  it wrong.  He  invented  like  this. And  he  thought  he'd  flu  like  a  fluid. You  talked  about  Coric. But  the  point  of  the  seconds  he  got  it  right. C  lassies  comes  along,  does  a  better  job, makes  it  sort  of  mathematically  sound. Boltzman  comes  along,  right? Actually  gives  us  some  truth, talks  about,  you  know, entropy  and  probabilities. And  in  Gibbs,  Gibbs  was the  first  PhD  in  engineering, I  think  in  the  United  States, who's  out  of  Yale. It  was  the  only  person  that  Einstein regretted  from  the  US  never  meeting. It  was  like, one  Regret  was  not  meeting  Gibbs. And  then  there  was  a  guy, an  electrical  engineer, Shannon,  who  you  can  read  about. And  it  turns  out  that  entropy, while  starting  with  humble roots  and  heating  conversion, turns  out  to  apply  to  a  lot of  stuff  in  communications, right,  and  data  and  all  of  that. So  if  you  want  to  read  about like  entropy  and  Shannon, you  can  read  stuff  about  him  and And  actually,  I  don't  know  if you've  known  Von  Neuman. Von  Neuman  was  a  Hungarian  mathematician, and  he  sort  of  told  Shannon to  call  it  information  entropy. Why? Because  no  one  will  understand  what  it  is, you  know,  So  Away  just  some  bad  jokes. But  the  point  of,  you  know, this  sort  of  long  thing, aside  from  the  fact  that  I'd  love to  tell  stories  is  that  it's easy  it's  not  an  easy  quantity to  wrap  your  head  around. You're  not  going  to  go  out with  an  entro  parameter or  whatever,  you  know,  and  do  it. But  if  you  do,  you  might  get  rich. So  think  about  that.  All  right?  Or  nobel. I  don't  know. Yes,  please.  Amil. We're  going  to  do  the  entropy  relations, I  think  in  the  next  lecture. So  that's  awesome  foreshadow. You  can't  beat  that. The  student  asking  what's  coming  next. Other  questions.  Can  I come  to  the  front  here  really  quick? Yeah,  Mex? Yeah.  Zero  entropy  a. Okay,  so  you  want  to  read  about  that. That's  a  dangerous  question  to  ask  me. So  the  first  thing  I'm  going  to  tell  you is  you  read  about  nernst. So  you  can  read  about  what  is  it? I  think  the  zero third  law  or  something  like  this. So  when  we  talk  about  bringing a  system  to  zero  entropy, this  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  do,  right? You  basically  have  to  take  all  the  heat out  of  something  to  get  it. And  there  is  a  lot  of  work  that  goes in  where  people  try  to  cool  things to  absurdly  low  temperatures and  look  what  happens. But  maybe  read  that  and then  next  time  we  talk  there.  Yes. Okay,  we're  getting  you  great  stuff, but  totally  out  of  the  scope  of  M  40. Yes.  It  doesn't  move,  right? I  mean,  if  it's  basically, you  don't  move,  right? Then  so  maybe,  but I  have  to  This  is  another  dangerous  one. I  want  to  read  a  little  bit  before replying.  Pleading  the  fifth. This  is  pleading  the  fifth  today. Yes,  please. So,  I  So  we  have  some  I  want  to  qualify  this. I  mean,  we  have  a  change  in the  system,  right  here. And  we  have  some  EN, and  we  have  some  E  out  with  it  to  work out  if  you  had  if  EN  and  E  out  were  the  same, what  would  you  have  to  determine? Now  I'm  answering  like  a  politician  today. So  our  EN  is  what.  You  would agree  here  that  our  EN  is  what? QN. Yeah,  this  nasty.  We  have this  Yeah,  so  we  have  QN,  right? And  then  on  the  E  out,  right? S  W  out.  Q  and  we  know. And  so  what  one  would  have  to  do  is  determine then  what  the  V  two  and  the  V  ones  were, which  we  could  easily which  we  could  easily  do. So  yeah. But  if  you  ask  me  to  guess,  my  guess  is  no, right?  But  that's  my  guess. Simply  because  the  temperature, it  goes  up  a  lot  there.  But  yeah. Yes,  one  more,  and  then  I'm  going  to start  to  open  up the  next  question  that  we  have. You  go.  So,  we  always  in  general, we  talk  about  changes  in  a  process. So  state  one  is  where  we start  state  twos  where  we  end. We  look  at  the  changes  within it.  We  are  engineers. Physicists,  they  go  home  and  they  think, What  if  I  could  take this  thing  and  make  it  zero? Why  is  it  like  DQ  divided? You  know, they  ask  themselves  these  questions. I  don't  ask  myself  those  questions. I  like  to  sleep  at  night. Alright?  So  yes. But  you  can  talk about  it  in  an  absolute  sense, but  you  got  to  go  across  the  hall over  there  to  the  other  building,  right? Okay,  so  that's  enough  of  me  talking. So  what  I  want  to  do  now  is  to  look  at  this. And  after  this,  we'll  close  out. I'll  begin  then  with  isotropic  processes, and  then  with  Emilia's entropy  relations  next  time. Let  me  launch  this  first, and  then  we  can  start  with  it. Alright,  that's  activated. So  here's  what  I  want  you  to  do. So  you've  got  you've  got  a  hot  iron  casting. So  just  a  hot  block  of  metal, 50  Kelvin  or  50  kilograms  at  500  Kelvin, and  you  throw  this  into  a  large  lake at  285  Kelvin. And  the  block  eventually reaches  thermal  equilibrium  with  the  lake. Assume  that  the  average specific  heat  of  the  iron  is  this. I  don't  h,  what  the  Sorry  for  that. Okay.  So  we  have  this  there. Open  the  pole  within  your  groups and  answer  the  few  questions that  you  have  there. I'm  gonna  circulate  around  the  room. Are  there  any  questions  before  I  get  started? Okay,  let's  go. Is  it  okay? I  have a  question  about  the  equations. I  there  again. So  in  the  N  minus  N  was  like  W  N  plus Q  except  W  N  was  like cross  ppt  I  know  there's  another  equation, for  example,  S. You  can  write  that  full  equation. So  start  with  that.  My  question  is  what happened  in  the  equation Because  this  is  a  different  system. What  system  does  that  apply  to? I  steady  flow  devices. Right  systems  of  flow. So  that's  where  you  do  this. The  main  thing  you  got  to  get in  your  head  is  that, do  I  have  flow  into  my  control  volume? Yes  or  no.  If  no, this  do  business  goes  away. And  the  only  way  you  can transfer  energy  in  and  out  of such  a  system  is.  That's  it. So  the  change  in  my  control  volume, which  could  be  internal  energy, kinetic  energy  potential. Usually  internal  energy  is  equal to  the  work  in  placed  in  minus, the  workout,  and  the  heat  out.  That's  it. And,  unless  we  know  that, unless  we  know  that  is  equal  to, we  can't  Shed  state. You  talk  about  steady  state. So  with  the  control  with  the steady  No,  no,  no,  stat. That's  why  you  can't  equal  the  two  together. Not  necessarily.  Then  if  it  was  steady  state, but  it  wasn't  flow,  then  this  would  be K  E  plus  E  could  be.  That  could  all  be  there. But  in  general, with  pistons,  we  don't  deal  with  steady. We're  doing  some  heat  in. We're  doing  some  workout, some  workout,  some  heat  out. We're  always  doing  something  with the  EM  would not  equal  to  the  steady  flow  devices  we  do. That  is  the  right  thing  to  do. Okay. But  I  would  say  conceptually  try  to  classify. Ask  yourself  first  if there's  mass  in  or  out  there.  Okay? On. Here.  Okay.  Thank  you. Deep  in  the  math.  All  good.  I  got  an  answer. I  like  you. The  seven plus  the  three  is  my little  daughter's grading  and  she'll  be  happy. Well,  let's  just  think  about  intuitively. So  if  you  take  a  big  iron  block  that's  hot. I'll  throw  it  in.  You  expect the  temperature  of  the  change. Exempt. What's  the  reservoir  which  temperature  is vari  how  do  we relate  changes  in  transfer  change? W  one. That's  great.  Water. Mature  Yes.  The  answer  is  yes. You'll  have  the  temperature variation  through  the  whole  process. To  integrate  that  change  in  entropy, we  have  to  know the  temperature  variation with  the  whole  process. But  you're  like  more  step  and  you're  there. All  right. That  was  five.  Let's  get  this  in before  we're  done  here. All  right.  So  if you  haven't  submitted,  please  submit. Okay. What's  the  trop  change  in  the  iron  block? I  have  kilojoules  per  Calvin round  to  the  nearest  one. I  see  a  big, close  to  an  almost  majority,  a  minus  ten. And  steadily  changing  in the  positives.  So  let's  think  about  this. So  we're  talking  about  only the  iron  block,  right? So  you  have  only  the  iron  block  here. And  the  temperature  here  of  the  iron. And  then  we  have  the  temperature  of  the  lake. Is  the  temperature  of  the  iron greater  or  less  than  the  lake? It's  greater,  right?  Okay,  so where  is  he  going  to  flow  from? Out,  right?  So  I  have  a  Q  out. If  I'm  taking  Q  out  of  something, do  you  expect  entropy  to  go  up or  down,  down,  right? Um  Yes.  So  here, the  first  thing  that  you should  orient  on  yourself is  you're  going  to  have an  expectation  of  a  decrease, a  negative,  negative  for  the  system. Of  course,  for  the  entire  thing together,  it  will  increase. It  will  be  zero,  or  it  will  increase. Zero  is  when  it's  reversible. Irreversible  is  when  it  increases,  right? But  you  can  decrease  locally, entropy  if  you  reject heat  if  you  reject  heat  out,  right? Great.  What's  the  second I  don't  want  to  get  into  the  values, but  let's  say  they  say  close to  minus  ten  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Calvin. Let's  say  the  next  closest  one  is  -20. So  I  have  someone  who  or  for  Calvin. Can  I  have  someone  from  the  -20  group  say a  few  words  on  their  thinking and  how  they  got  to  their  answer? Sure.  Q  is  equal  to  what?  I'm  sorry. MC  Delta  T? Okay. So  do  I  understand  this  right? So  basically,  we  have  a  Delta  S  is  like  a  Q, a  Q  divided  by  t. And  so  then  you  hear you  have  the  Q  from  this. And  then,  which  t  did  you  took? The  lake  we  have a  T  lake,  and  then  we  have  a  Q. Great.  How  about  for  the  minus  ten  group? C  to  share?  Your  name?  Carolyn,  Yes,  please. Share. That goes negative  11  kilos  per  Kelvin. Hopefully  everyone  can  see  that. Was  there  another  answer  from either  the  Pedro? In  the  Delta  S equals  one  over  t  one  over  t  one. The  same.  Sure.  Negative  seven  point. Other  answers?  Yes,  please. Sure. Yes.  Point  So I  to  negative  nine  points.  Okay. Okay,  I'm  going  to  bring  it  home. Carolyn.  So,  these  are  all  great  thinking, and  all  of  them  are  sort  of,  one step  closer  as  we  get  towards  the  accurate. The  one  that  would  give  you the  most  accurate  value  is the  one  thank  you  to  Carolyn  for sharing  with  it  because  you  have detailed  knowledge  about  how the  heat  is  transferred and  its  effect  on  temperature. That  unknown  DQ  becomes  a  known  DT  here. And  when  you  integrate  that,  you  know exactly  the  temperature of  the  rock  at  that  point, and  then  the  heat  being transferred  at  that  point. So  you  have  full  knowledge. Okay?  That  was  awesome. Thank  you  very  much  for sticking  out  till  the  end  there. We'll  see  you  next  time. One  sec,  one  sec,  one  sec. Oh,  I  have  extra  office  hours tomorrow  at  ten, and  also  Thursday  at  ten, and  then  my  normal  office  hours  at  12. In  my  tomorrow  is  in  the  void  room, which  is  right  next  to  my  office,  okay?  Cool. Yes.
