All  right,  I  got  210. Let's  get  started. All  right,  so  we  finished  our  last  lecture today  about  vapor  and  combined  power  cycles. Loud,  loud.  All  right. So  after  today's  lecture, you'll  be  able  to  analyze a  combined  gas  vapor  power  cycle and  analyze  an  ideal  cogeneration  plant. The  way  to  think  about  this is  until  now,  right, we  were  putting  heat  in, trying  to  get  work  out, and  then  rejecting  the  heat. All  right.  We  had  some  efficiency. And  the  question  that  was  asked  before  was, how  does  one  improve the  efficiencies  of  these  cycles? And  in  short,  what  you  want to  do  is  you  want  to squeeze  out  every  last  bit  of, like,  Q  in  that  you, um,  that  you  can. We've  looked  so  far  at concepts  like  regeneration, essentially  taking,  let's say  exhaust  gases  out, using  it  to  preheat, compress  air  before entering  the  combustor  and then  into  a  turbine  regeneration. Last  time  we  looked  at  reheat. Essentially,  after  you  do one  pass  through  a  turbine, reheat  that  low  pressure, relatively  lower  pressure  vapor to  pass  through  a  second  turbine. The  idea  there  was  that  we extended  the  Qin,  right? So  we  were  transferring  most  of the  heat  in  then  at  a  high  temperature, that  was  the  strategy  of  reheat. The  other  way  that  you  can  do it  is  to  do  what's called  creating  a  top  and  a  bottom  cycle. So  here,  what  you  would  have in  this  concept  is  that you  would  take  a  Brighton  cycle,  right? And  instead  of  taking  that  heat, and  putting  it  into  a  regenerator prior  to  the  combustor  to  heat  it, what  you  do  is  you actually  take  all  of  that  heat out  and  you  transfer  it into  a  rankin  cycle,  right? Maybe  the  most  common  one  I  know  of is  called  organic  rankin,  right? And  it's  organic  because it  doesn't  run  on  water,  right? So  use  things  that  boil  at,  let's  say, lower  temperatures  there  and  you, um  and  you  run  it. And  by  doing  these  top  and these  bottom  cycles  here, you  can  really  boost  the  efficiency. So  I  pulled  this  number  from  the  textbook. I  mean,  above  60%  is  like, I  mean,  that's  really  something  substantial. If  you  take  the  temperatures and  stuff  into  here  and  said, what  would  it  be  if  it  was  Carn? Carn  was  about,  you  know,  80%  there. So,  I  mean,  62  to  80. That's  a  pretty,  uh,  um,  you  know, for  a  real  efficiency,  that's quite  an  impressive  number,  okay? So  we'll  focus  on  this. So  we'll  go  through  and  analyze  this  one, and  I'll  take  you  through  the  process  of  it. The  only  really  the  thing  here  that  is conceptually  new  is  that we  need  to  do  a  matching,  right? So,  essentially,  we've  analyzed the  Brayden  cycle  as  applied  to  um, power  generation,  you've  analyzed the  Rankin  cycle  there  where the  heat  in  was  essentially  into  a  boiler. And  so  what  you  need  to  remember  is  that both  of  these  cycles run  on  their  own  mass  flow  rates. There's  going  to  be  some  MDOT of  air  that  circulates  through  there. There's  going  to  be  an  MDOT of  water  that  circulates  through  here. And  so  you  have  to  have  matching,  okay? And  so  what  does  that  matching look  like?  All  right. So  let  me  see  here. Am  I  visible  on  my  video? No,  I  am.  All  right. Before  we  get  into  the  weeds, I'll  just  say  that  it's  at  a  high  level. All  right. So  here's  your  heat  exchanger, as  it  would  be  in  Brighton. So  this  is  like  state  eight.  All  right. Um,  This  is  then  how  would  it  look  like? Yeah,  it  would  be  open,  right? This  is  then  out  state  nine. And  then  for  the  water, which  you  would  have  because this  is  a  closed  loop. So  your  heat  exchanger probably  look  like  that. And  then  that  would  be  exiting  in. So  this  would  be  your  state  I should  say  nine.  I  should  say  nine. This  should  say  eight,  this  should  say  two, and  then  this  should  stay  three,  all  right? And  so  this  heat  exchanger, if  I  draw  the  control  volume  on  the  outside of  it,  All  right. If  I  draw  the  control  volume, let's  say  on  the  entire  device  here. It's  adiabatic,  right?  There  is  no  heat  in, and  there  is  no  heat out  of  the  heat  exchanger. It's  kind  of  like  that doesn't  make  any,  you  know,  sense,  okay? But all  the  heat  exchange  happened  internally. So  the  control  volume with  respect  to  the  outside, there's  no  heat  in  or  out. There's  no  work,  right? There's  no  work  in  or  out  there,  all  right? And  so  what  are  the  ways  that energy  is  carried  in  and  out  of  this? It's  an  enthalpy,  right? So  if  I  write  my, um,  conservation  of  energy  equation  here. What  I'll  have  is,  and let's  say  that  I  have  an  M  dot  here. So  the  mass  flow  rate entering  through  this,  what  do  they  call  it? I  think  I  called  it  dot  T, indicating  that  that's  the  top  cycle. And  then  here  on  this, I  have  an  M  dot  B, which  I  think  I  was calling  the  bottoming  cycle, right?  And  this  is  heat  exchange. It's  not  a  mixing  chamber. You're  not  mixing  air  and  water. The  purpose  of  this  is  just  to  transfer  heat. So  if  I  say  that  I have  a  steady  flow  device  here,  right? So  DE,  CV,  dt  for  this  red  one  right  as  my  E dot  N.  Minus  my  E dot  out  and  steady  flow,  so  that  goes  away. Neglect  changes  in  kinetic and  potential  energy. No  work  in  or  out, no  heat  in  or  out  of  it. And  so  what  you'll have  is  you  have  to  look  at the  fluid  streams  that  are  entering  here. I'm  going  to  have  an  M  dot  T at  enthalpy  eight  that's  entering. What  else  do  I  have  entering? I  have  plus  M  dot  B, here  times  enthal  P  at  state  two, and  this  must  be  equal  to  what's  exiting. So  then  I  can  go  dot  T  times  H  nine, and  then  that'll  be  minus  or  plus  dot, bottom,  and  where  is  that? Exiting?  That's  exiting  at H  three,  all  right? And  so  if  we  divide  because  what  do  I  need? I'm  looking  here  in  this  problem, which  I'm  not  going  to  read  to  you. But  essentially  in  part  A, we're  looking  at  getting the  ratio  of  the  mass  flow  rate between  the  steam  and  the  combustion  gases. So  the  steam  is  going  to  be  M  dot  B, and  the  combustion  gases  is  M  dot  T. So  if  I  divide  both  sides  by M  dot  T,  All  right. And  I  rearrange. So  what's  going  to  go  away,  right? This  is  going  to  sack  and  sack. And  so  what  I'll  have  here  is  I  can  write M  dot  B  divided  by  M  dot  T.  Times  H  two. I  have  the  same  thing  on  this  side, so  maybe  minus  H  three, and  that'll  be  equal  to  my  H nine  minus  H  eight. What  this  implies  then  is  that dot  B  divided  by  M  dot  T  is  equal  to H  nine  minus  H  eight  divided  by H  two  minus  H  three.  Good. And  this  is  an  important  relation because  we're  going  to get  to  refrigeration  next, and  in  refrigeration, this  is  a  common  approach  to  run an  upper  and  a  lower  or  a topping  and  a  bottoming  cycle. They  are  also  to  boost  efficiency. So  remembering  that  you  have  to  have a  matching  criterion  here, that's  important,  okay? Of  course,  what  does  this  mean? What  does  this  mean?  So  I  wrote  all  of  this. What  does  this  mean?  Like  in  simple  terms. If  I  ask  this  side  of the  room  in  layperson  terms  to  tell me  what  is  the  meaning  of  this  formula  here. Shall  I  start  at  the  back,  LS. How  much  of  what  is  going out  and  how  much  of  what  is  going  in? What  do  I  care  about?  Yes. But  I'm  thinking  about  the  power, the  efficiency  of  a  power  plant, what  are  things  that  I  care  about? I  enthalpy. Let's  start  simpler,  right? I  said,  this  is  a  big  number,  right? And  France  said  they  have  a  big  number. So  what  goes  into  the  efficiency of  a  thermal  power  plant? Like,  what  is  the  definition  of the  efficiency  of  a  thermal  engine? All  right.  So  the  thermal  efficiency of  an  engine  is  your w.net  divided  by  your  q.in,  right? This  is  what  we  care  about,  okay? And  what  I'm  saying  here,  right  is  I took  this  rank  in  cycle  where I  had  aq.in  that  was  from the  boiler  and  I  just  stacked it  onto  the  Braden,  okay? So  having  said  that  again, what  do  you  think  is  the  meaning of  this  analysis? Now  I'm  opening  it  up  to  the  floor.  Sure. This  would  help  us  to  understand  some inefficiencies  that  are  there, I'll  give  you  that.  But  simpler. Yes,  we're  talking  about  the  waste  heat. Exactly. So  we're  saying  the  right  word  now  heat  here. So  that's  an  enthalpy, but  I  want  to  stay  with  heat,  okay? So  this  heat  exchanger that  I'm  approximating  here, when  I  ran  that  as a  Braden  cycle,  what  was  that? So  state  seven  to  88  to  nine there  in  a  Braden  cycle, what  was  this?  Cody? Condenser. Kind  of  like  a  condenser.  Let's  say a  low  temperature  heat  exchanger, because  in  the  Braden it's  a  working  fluids  a, so  I'm  not  going  to  condense  it, but  let's  say  the  temperature  heat  exchanger. Now,  I've  connected  it  to here  on  the  rankin  cycle. What  was  this  heat  exchanger  here, Cody  on  the  rakincycle between  the  pump  and  the  turbine? What  do  we  call  that  when  it  was a  rank  in  a  water,  a  steam  power  plant? Boiler.  Okay.  So  I'm  saying  that the  low  grade  heat  out of  right  out  of the  cold  condenser  my  Brayton, is  the  high  temperature  heat that  goes  in,  okay? So  if  I  want  to  say  this  in  a  different  way, how  would  I  say  that, having  said  all  of  these  words The  heat  out  of the  top  cycle  is  equal  to the  heat  in  of  the  bottom  cycle. That's  what's  important,  okay? It's  not  that  hard.  This  is actually  not  rocket  science,  right? So,  like,  that's  it. So  in  writing  this,  that's  all  I've  done. But  the  key  thing  you  have  to  remember, and  I  swear  I  don't  want to  grade  a  single  exam  that does  this  is  you're  going to  have  different  M  dots. These  are  not  mixing,  right? These  are  in  separate  loops,  all  right? Clear?  Other  questions  about this  before  I  continue  now  with this  slog  that  is  a combined  gas  vapor  power  cycle. All  right. All  right.  So  that's  really the  only  new  thing  that  we've  seen. Maybe  I  guess  I guess  I  wrote  it  there,  right? So  the  theral  efficiency  is  the w.net  I  should  write  out  there,  right? So  that's  aw.net  out,  right? So  if  we  solve  for  this,  right, that's  going  to  help  us  to  get  to  part  B, and  we  have  to  get  that  to  get  to  part  A. All  right.  So  if  we  pick  up,  though, from  our  w.net,  all? So  that's  the  first  piece. The  second  piece  to  keep  in  mind here  is  that  when we  write  this  thermal  efficiency, the  thermal  efficiency,  I  said  was  the w.net  out,  divided  by  q.in. We  said  before  that  how  else  can I  write  this  w.net  out for  a  cycle  is  equal  to  what?  Q.in. We  can  write  this  as  q.net  in q.net  in  divided  by  q.in,  right? Now,  the  thing  to  pay  attention  to  here. So  what  you're  going to  want  to  do  in  this  problem, you  know,  if  you  went this  route,  you  will  be  fine,  right? If  you  went  this  route,  you'd  be  fine.  Why? Because  net  out  is  nothing but  your  W  dot  out  from, let's  say  the  gas  turbine  plus the  W  dot  out  from the  let's  say  the  steam  turbine, and  then  that's  going  to  be  minus  the w.in  for the  compressor  and  plus  the w.in  for  the  pump,  okay? And  then  that's  all  going  to  be  divided  by q.in,  right?  That's  fine. So  we'll  do  this,  and  we'll  get  into analyzing  each  of  those  steady  flow  devices. If  you  decided  in  this  problem to  go  with  the  net  Q  in, this  is  going  to  be  problematic in  this  problem,  all  right? Um,  and  why  is  that? I  have  air  coming  into  my  compressor. I  have  some  work  in  here. I  have  the  combustor,  I  have a  cubed  out  in  that  looks  great. Seven  to  eight  gas  tb, I  have  some  amount  of  work  out. Eight  to  nine  and  I  have  a  heat exchanger,  and  it's  good. The  point  though,  is  that  in  this  problem, the  exhaust  gases  leave at  state  nine  here  at  450. Do  we  think  that  450  Kelvin  is  going to  be  the  same  temperature as  when  I  draw  air  in  from  the  outside? Yes  or  no?  No,  okay? So  if  you  want  to  go  that  route, what  you  need  to  do  is  you'd  have  to  model, essentially  another  heat  exchanger, to  say,  okay,  now  I  took  all  of  that  out. If  you  didn't  do  that  and  you  just plugged  and  chugged  and,  Hey,  look, I  have  this  as  my  heat  in,  workout, workout,  heat  out,  you're going  to  be  wrong  in  this  problem. It's  because  this  above  as  it's drawn  and  presented  is actually  not  a  complete  cycle. State  five  is  not  state  nine, okay?  All  right. And  now  we're  starting to  get  like  real,  right? Like,  now  I'm  not  idealizing  as  much. I'm  starting  to  give  you  real  conditions. Again,  this  is  another  way  in which  if  you  again, go  with  these  analysis  and  with  this, this  is  not  going  to  be  a  way to  go  with  how  it's  presented. You'd  have  to  add  another  one. Is  there  a  question? No.  Okay. Okay,  good. So  if  we  come  here  and  we  think  about then  how  we  define  each  of  these  terms, what  we'll  have  to  do,  right, is  to  draw  control  volumes around  each  of  these  devices. These  are  steady  flow  devices. For  each  of  these,  we  neglect  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy.  All  right? So  if  we  think  about  now, let  me  see  if  I  have  a  different  marker. Okay.  That's  better. Okay.  All  right. All  right. So  if  we  go  bit  by  bit  through  this, so  the  W  dot  out for  your  compressor  or  I'm  sorry, your  W  dot  out  for  your  gas turbine  is  there  is  going to  be  the  dot  T  of  there and  that's  going  to  be  the  enthalpy at  state  seven  H seven  minus  H  eight  actual? And  the  reason  why  that  I  write H  eight  actual  is  because  in  this  problem, you  were  told  that  there's isotropic  efficiencies for  the  compressor  and  the  turbine. So  just  to  remind  you, when  it  comes  to  the  turbine, the  isentropic  efficiency  of a  turbine  is  the  ratio  of  the  actual  work  out of  it  divided  by the  isentropic  work  out  of  it. So  it  means  that  the  initial  state here  is  always  a  seven  divided  by  a  seven, in  the  bottom  that's  the  isentropic, so  that's  h8s,  and  then  this is  minus  H  eight  actual,  okay? Since  this  is  a  given,  great. H  seven, we're  going  to  be  able  to  determine,  right. A  lot  of  times  in  these  cycles, what's  given  generally  is the  hottest  temperature and  the  highest  pressure. You  generally  will  know  the  inlet  state right  into  your  work  transfer  device, in  this  case,  the  turbine. So  you'll  know  that. You'll  be  able  to  get  to h8s  because the  downstream  pressure  is probably  also  going  to  be, um  uh,  given,  especially  in  this  case, it's  going  to  be  essentially  the  atmosphere. So  isotropic  and  you  know  that. H  seven,  again,  you  know, and  then  you  solve  for  HA,  right? So  HA  is  going to  be  equal  to  E,  so  the  negative, that  is  E  to  T  H  seven  minus  h8s,  right? That's  then  minus  H  seven. If  we  make  that  a  positive,  we  make this  a  negative,  make  that  a  positive. That's  how  you'll  determine  that  enthalpy, right? So  that's  the  workout  of out  of  the  gas  turbine,  right? The  work  out  of the  steam  turbine  is then  going  to  be  your  mass  floor to  your  bottoming  cycle  again, steady  flow  device,  neglect changes  in  kinetic  and  potential  energy. And  so  here,  what  you're  going  to  have is  H  three  minus, again,  H  four  A, with  the  actual,  except  that  in  this  case, you're  told  that  the  efficiency of  the  steam  turbine  is  100%,  okay? What's  the  language  for  this? The  bottom  mean  cycle  is an  ideal,  an  ideal,  right? This  is  an  ideal  ranking  cycle, which  means  that  it's  going  to  operate isentropically.  What  does  this  mean? It  means  that  your  H  four  A is  going  to  be  equal  to  your  h4s,  okay? Good.  For  the  work  in, so  if  we  have  our  w.in for  our  well,  let's  be  consistent. We  call  this  like  gas. So  this  is  w.in  for  the  gas  turbine. Again,  that's  going  to  be  the  M  dot  T because  it's  the  top  cycle. And  here,  it's  going  to  be  a  six, actual  minus  H  five. You  recall  the  isentropic  efficiency as  it's  given  for  a  compressor,  right? So  it's  the  minimum  work  in divided  by  the  actual  work  in. The  minimum  work  in  is  when  it's  isotropic. So  here,  that  would  then  be the  minimum  work  would  be  H  six  minus  H  five, and  the  actual  one  is  H  six  A minus  H  five,  okay? You  can  solve  for  this.  So  then your  actual  would  be  what? It  would  be  equal  to  H  six  minus  H  five. That's  a  bad  55. So  swap  this  E  to  C, goes  below,  which  is  a  given. Then,  um,  plus  H  five. And  then  this  is  H  six  A. So  you  have  H  six  A. Here,  your  actual  enthalpy for  something  like  a  compressor, would  be  given,  we'll  analyze this  when  we  get  to  properties, but  the  inlet  state  is  given. Generally,  with  compressors, you  given  what's called  the  compression  ratio. So  the  ratio  of the  outlet  pressure  to  the  inlet. So  by  knowing  the  state  one,  by  knowing  that, and  now  by  knowing the  enthalpy  specific  enthalpy, you're  going  to  know  also that  state  at  six  if  you  cared. And  then  w.in  When it  comes  to  call  this  pump, maybe  just  to  be  consistent, I  can  call  this  ST  for  the  steam, w.ns  that's  the  bottom  cycle,  which  is  there. Your  pump  here  is  going  to  be  HSA, I'm  sorry,  HA  minus  H  one. Again,  because  the  problem here  is  telling  you  that  it's an  ideal  ranking  cycle with  no  other  information about  isotropic efficiencies  or  anything  like  that. What  this  means  is  that the  isentropic  efficiency  of your  pump  it's  going  to  be  equal  to  one, which  means  that  H  two  A  is  equal  to  H  twos. How  do  you  determine  that  state? You  determine  this  state  here because  you  would  assume  that this  device  operates isentropically  and  you're generally  given the  high  temperature  pressure  of  this  cycle. You  know  the  specific  entropy, you  know  the  pressure,  you  then know  the  state. You  can  determine  H  two  A  from  that. The  final  one  is  your Q  dot  N.  Your  q.in  All  right. This  is  occurring  your q.in  is  happening  in  the  combustion  chamber, so  that's  going  to  be  your  M  dot  times the  top  cycle, and  this  is  going  to  be  the  specific  enthal pH  seven,  okay? And  then  minus,  pay  attention  to  this. This  will  then  be  six  A,  right? So  the  actual  state  there,  right. So  now  we  put  that  all  together. So  what  we'll  have,  what's easier  for  me  to  write? Maybe  I  can  try  to  fit  it  with  this. So  the  actual  efficiency then  is  let's  write  it  out. So  we  have  our  out,  right? So  we  have  dot T.  Let's  start  with  the  gas  turbine, H  seven  minus  HA plus  the  bottom cycles  contribution  to  the  out, which  will  be  H  three  minus  H  fours. Okay?  That's  great. And  then  minus  the  network  out. So  for  our  network  out, what  we  will  have  is  an  M  dot  top  here. So  in,  I'm  sorry,  for  the  in. So  the  w.in,  we  can  start  with  that. The  top  one  is  H  six  A  minus  H  five, and  that's  plus  an  M  dot  of  our  bottom, which  is  then  steam, which  will  be  All  right. So  the  bottom  is  there, that's  H  two  A  minus  r  one. Great.  Then  all  of  that  is  divided  by  our  Qn, which  is  the  dot  T  times  H  seven  minus  six  A. And  so  what  we'll  see  out  of  this  is that  actually  for  a  problem  like  this, I  need  not  give  you  a  mass  flow  rate  in  order to  actually  get  in order  to  actually  get  to  the  efficiency because  all  of  this  is  just  going to  be  ratios  of  the  dots,  all  right? All  right.  So  if  we take  this  and  we  put  this  here,  right, M  dot  T  dot  T  dot  T, and  then  dot  T,  right? This  is  going  to  be  gone, and  then  that's  going  to  be  All  right, and  that's  essentially  going to  be  gone,  all  right? So  now  we'll  go  state  by  state,  all  right? So  we  have  now  from our  first  principles,  right? We  have  our  formulas. So  this  is  one  that's  important  to  us. Okay.  I  blow  this  up. This  is  the  second  one, which  is  important  to  us. All  right.  And  so  now  we just  have  to  go  state  by  state and  determine  this. Are  there  any  questions  at  this  point? Yes,  please,  Elias. Louder.  Yeah,  this  would be  two  because  it  would  be  fine. I  said  that  they're  equal, but  I  tried  to  be,  so  this  is  h2s, but  because  the  pump  rates  an  ideal  ranking, H  twoA  would  be  H  twos  because the  isotropic  efficiency is  one,  but  that's  a  good  catch. Other  questions?  No.  Great. Okay.  So  let's  get  the  states. So  we  start  here. Well,  we  can  go  a  number  of  ways, but  what's  going  to  be  easiest? Let's  see  how  I  did  it  in  my  notes. Combined  Great. Okay. All  right. So  we'll  write  a  couple of  pieces  of  information. Questions?  I  hear  voices  in  my  head. I  don't  want  to  hear  actual  voices,  right? But  if  you  have  questions, please  ask.  All  right. So  as  this  problem is  written,  okay,  we're  given, right,  this  PR,  right, a  pressure  ratio, which  is  equal  to  eight  for  the  compressor. So  what  does  this  imply? This  implies  for  the  compressor  that  P  six, right,  divided  by  P five  is  equal  to  PR,  right? And  because  P  five  is essentially  atmospheric  pressure, you'll  then  know  the  pressure  at  state  six. That's  the  first  one,  okay? So  state  one,  Okay. We  have  P  one,  which  is  equal  to 101  pa.  All  right. And  a  temperature  T  one that's  equal  to  300  Kelvin. Now,  you're  not  given  this  pressure  here, but  I  expect  you  to  infer  that,  okay? I'm  taking  in  air. Air  is  at  a  pressure. This  is  a  power  plant,  it is  not  up  in  the  sky,  okay? Unless  space  force  wants  it  up  there,  right? Otherwise,  it's  on  the  ground,  all  right? So  you  have  this  as  your  pressure. Give  me  one,  and  then the  temperature  was  a  given. Yes,  please.  Question. I'm  sorry.  This  is  State  five. I  apologize.  Good  catch. State  five  is  what  I  meant,  right? So  you  have  state  five  here, which  is  at  this  condition. This  is  a  give  me. It  means  from  this,  you would  be  able  to  know  H  five and  you'd  be  able  to know  little  S  five  there,  okay? So  reason  I  started  one  in  my  life,  right? Here  we  are  at  a  little  bit  different. Okay,  you  have this  piece  of  information,  right? So  we  have  this  with  the  PR, and  essentially  what  that means  then  for  State  six, with  State  six  let's  say state  six  S  for  the  isentropic  case, as  we  know  that  P  six  is  equal  to PR  times  P  five. And  if  I  did  the entropy  analysis  of  that  device, it's  a  steady  flow  device, adiabatic  reversible. It  means  that  the  specific  entropy  at the  inlet  is  equal  to the  specific  entropy  of  the  outlet for  the  isentropic  case. So  little  S  six  is  equal  to  little  five. What  it  means  here  is  that  you  will  know H  sixS,  all  right? Not  enough  information,  right? You  need  to  then  go  through,  use the  isotropic  efficiency  for  a  compressor, and  then  you  can  determine  H  six  A,  okay? But  this  is  the  way,  all  right? This  is  the  way. All  right,  um,  Good,  good,  good. What  was  that  efficiency that  we  were  given  in  this  problem? The  isotropic  efficiency  of  this  compressor, I  think  is  0.8. So  that's  important  for the  analysis  to  a  six  A  there. I  said  this  already  that this  was  atmospheric  pressure. And  is  there  any  other  information that  I  need  to  give  on  this? No,  I  do  not. All  right,  State  seven. So  going  along  to  State  seven. So  for  its  state  seven, you're  given  you're  basically  given the  temperature  of  the  air as  it  enters  into  the  turbine. So  your  T  seven  is  exactly  that. That's  13  Calvin,  so  that's  good. And  since  this  is,  you  know, it's  a  combustion  chamber, but  until  we  get  to the  last  week  of  this  semester, we're  essentially  treating  those  things as  city  flow  heat  exchangers. And  so  what  it  means  is  for  a  heat  exchanger, we  have  no  pressure  drop  across  it,  right? So  it  means  that  P  seven  is  equal  to  P  six. How  do  I  know  P  six? Because  from  knowing  right from  state  All  right, to  get  to  state  six  A, what  you're  going  to  know  is  you  will determine  H  six  A, and  you  will  know  P  six,  right? So  from  this,  you  will  be  able  to  get  to P  six  actual  from  that. So  you  have  this  information,  and  from  here, you'll  be  able  to  get  then  H  seven, and  you'll  get  a  seven  from  that. All  right,  State  seven. We're  going  to  state  eight,  State eight.  State  eight. And  for  state  eight, the  first  step  is  to  get  to  state  eight  S before  we  then  go  to  eight  A. All  right?  And  again,  you  need  to  look a  little  bit  forward. So  you  have  exhaust  gases  coming  out  of the  turbine  that  are  just exhausting  to  the  atmosphere. So  what  you'll  expect  here  is  that p  eight  will  be  equal  to 101  pa.  All  right. Because  essentially  that the  heat  exchange  isobaric, State  nine  is  going  to  be  at atmospheric  pressure, so  that's  going  to  be  state  eight. And  again,  if  you  did  your  steady flow  entropy  analysis  of  this, you  would  see  that  S  eight here  for  this  case  is  going  to  be equal  to  little  S  seven. And  from  this,  what  you'll  have  is  h8s. You'll  remember  that  the  istropic  efficiency for  this  turbine  is  given  as  0.85. So  you  use  this  information with  the  formula  that  I  gave  you before  for  determining,  um  eight  A. And  so  what  you'll  have  an  is state  eight  A,  right? So  by  knowing  the  isentropic  efficiency, by  knowing  the  isotropic  enthalpy, you  will  be  able  to  from our  formula  here  to  get  to  H  eight  A, and  the  pressure  doesn't  change,  right? So  the  pressure  is  still  P  eight. And  so  from  this,  you  know, you  could  determine  things  like, um,  Let  me  think  about  this  for  a  second. What  do  I  actually  need  at  state  A? I  don't  really  need  anything, but  you  know  it,  right? So  basically, with  this,  the  state's  complete. But  what  you  care  about  for  the  purposes of  computing  efficiency  was getting  to  eight  A  there,  okay? So  that's  for  our  Brighton. We  can  then  move  on  to  the  states for  water,  all  right? What's  the  best  thing  to  do  here? The  best  thing  to  do  here is  just  to  write  on  the  board. All  right,  um,  So coming  along  then  onto  the  rank  in  side. So  the  rank  inside,  what  are  we  told  here? This  is  an  ideal  rank  in  cycle  that  operates between  seven  PA  and  five  kPa,  right? So  operating  between  this, you  have  to  recognize that  generally  the  boiler, what  we  call  the  heat  exchanger here  is  your  high  pressure  side, and  the  condenser  is low  pressure  side. Why  am  I  saying  that,  right? It's  isobaric.  So  here to  here  is  the  same  pressure, here  to  here  is  the  same  pressure. So  high  pressure  and  low  pressure. One  and  two,  you're given  the  temperature  of  the  steam,  okay? So  we  know  the  temperature  at  state  three. So  state  three  state  three, you're  basically  given  T  three  is  an  equal  to your  500  degrees  C.  P  three  is equal  to  the  higher  pressure  of  seven PA  seven  pA.  What it  means  from  this  is  that  you  know H  three  and  you  know  S  three. That's  a  good  start.  On  to  state  four, State  four,  This  is an  ideal  ranking  so  that  turbines  can operate  isotropically,  the  steam  turbine. If  you  did your  entropy  analysis  on  that  device, you  would  see  that  specific  entropy  at the  exit  is  equal  to  that  of  the  inlet. So  little  S  four  is  equal  to  little  S  three, and  the  pressure  at  state  four,  right, because  it's  connected  to  the  condenser is  going  to  be  at  the  low  pressure,  right? So  then  P  four  here is  equal  to  the  low  pressure, which  looks  to  me  like  five  kpa? So  five  KPA  there. And  it  means  from  this  that  you  know your  you  know  the  age  four. I'll  write  H  for  A  because H  four  A  is  equal  to  H  four  here. You  know  H  fourS  but  that's  also equal  to  H  A. Okay?  That's  good. You  then  move  along  to  state  one. It's  crucial  to  recognize that  for  a  Rankin  cycle, one  piece  of  information  which  is implicit  from  that  is  the  condenser. It  means  that  at  X  one, you're  a  saturated  liquid, your  condensed  state,  it's equal  to  zero,  right? And  because  it's  a  heat  exchanger, P  one  is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  P  four, then  you  know  S  one  and  you  know  H  one. The  final  piece  of  information  then is  its  state  two. So  at  state  two  here, you  do  entropy  analysis. Little  S  two  is  going  to be  equal  to  little  S  one. It's  an  isotropic  process, and  the  pressure  you're  going  to  have  here, P  two  is  the  high  pressure  side. It's  going  to  be  equal  to  P  three. And  so  what  it  means  is  that you  have  h3s  here, which  is  basically  equal  to  or  H  twoS  here, which  is  equal  to  H  two  A  because  it's  ideal. The  isotropic  efficiency  is  100%,  okay? Yes,  please. If  we  go  mark  to  868  isn't  the  guess, but  it  was  one  of the  ideas  is  that  you  would  use the  p68  and  the  actual  mental  reason to  find  P  weird because  it's  like  you  use  P  six  to  use p68  and  I  don't  understand  how  it  works. An  elastic.  State  six, when  you  go  into  the  compressor  state, so  at  the  exit  of  the  compressor, what  you're  generally  told is  what  that  pressure  is. You're  generally  told  what  this  is. That's  equal  to  the  inlet  pressure, which  is  P  five  times  the  pressure  ratio  PR. The  second  step  into getting  to  the  actual  enthalpy is  you  assume  it  operates isotropically  first, adiabatic  and  reversible,  you  get  H  six. To  get  to  H  six  A, I  need  to  know  H  six  and  I  need  to  know  ESC, the  isentropic  compressor  efficiency. With  that,  Here,  I can  get  to  H  six  A  through  this,  right? Because  I  have  h6s. I  determine  H  five  I  knew  E  to  C  was  given. Now  I  have  H  six  A. And  I  got  to  this  state,  and  I  said, What  the  hell  can  I  tell you  with  this  exercise? And  I  thought,  Well, maybe  pressure  is  interesting. But  yeah, so  that's  essentially  that's  what  I  have. And  then  if  you  continue,  right, you  go  to  that's  about  six. You'd  go  to  state  seven,  right? P  seven  is  equal  to  P  six  A, which  is  then  where  I  used  that, I  suppose,  and  then  with the  temperature,  I  have  that. But  what's  recursive  about  it? So  just  to  clarify,  P  value  possibilities. Oh,  I  see  what  you  mean  here. Yeah,  no,  no,  it's  not. Yeah.  That  would  just  be  P  six. So  at  this  day,  you  have  the  information. Of  course,  you  could  know  what the  actual  entropy  is, but  we  don't  need actually  anything  more  at  this  point to  continue  on  in  our  analysis  because  again, at  State  seven,  we already  know  that  information  at  State  seven. Yeah,  that's  a  good  catch. Thank  you  for  that. Okay.  I  wanted  to say  something.  That's  a  dangerous  thing. You  know  what  Mark  Twain  said,  right? No. No. A  famous  Midwestern,  you  know,  philosopher. So  better  to  remain  quiet  and thought  a  fool  than  speak  and remove  all  doubt,  okay? And  if  you  go  to  the  Doe  library right  here  at  the  library  here, they  have  a  ton  of  his  collections,  okay? He  was  an  amazing  writer. Alright.  Other  questions  about  this so  far  or  Mark  Twain? Short  letters,  long  letters. I  have  a  lot  of  quotes. Okay.  Anyway,  so  now  that  we  know,  right, so  now  we  basically  know the  enthalpies  at  all  of  these  states, the  first  step  would  be  to compute  this  ratio. I  guess  the  final  thing  I haven't  told  you  is  state  nine. Let's  do  that. So  state  nine  state  nine  here,  right? So  that  pressure  at  state  nine  is  going to  be  equal  to  the  atmospheric  pressure. So  the  p  eight  there, I'll  just  write  it  one  oh  one  kPa. You're  exhausting  to  the  atmosphere, and  you're  also  given  it,  right? You  were  given  450  Kelvin  was  the  exit  state. And  from  this,  you  know  H  nine,  right? So  I  know  H  eight  actual  there. I  have  H  two, which  we  call  H  two  actual  if  we  wanted  to, and  then  minus  our  H  three. With  this,  you  know  that  ratio  of  the  mass for  rates  in  the  bottom  cycle in  the  top  cycle. H  seven,  we  had  there HA  H  three  was given  in  the  problem  essentially  minus  h4s. That  could  also  be  H  four  A  it operates  isentropically. H  six  A, we  knew  from  the  pressure  ratio and  the  isentropic  efficiency, H  five  was  given  h2s, that  could  also  be  H  two  A  because the  isotropic  efficiency of  this  pump  is  100%, and  H  one  was  a  given. H  seven.  Let's  look  at  this. H  seven  was  also  a given  because  the  temperature and  the  pressure  there, and  then  H  six  A  we  have. So  you  would  go  in  with  all  of  that  and  you would  have  this  and you'd  have  this  formula,  okay? It's  kind  of  a  slog  to  do  it. As  you  can  imagine,  this  is  not  probably an  appropriate  question  to  ask  in a  quiz  unless  I  ask  one  question,  all  right? So,  um,  but  what you'll  see  in  a  problem  like  this is  it  still  just  has  you  practice your  fundamentals  through  this,  right? So  steady  flow  analysis, write  your  energy  equation, go  bit  by  bit,  write  your  formulas  out. For  that,  recognize  if  it's  ideal, right,  if  it's  ideal or  if  an  isentropic  efficiency  is  given. If  an  isentropic  efficiency  is  given, you  should  automatically  be thinking  about  how  to  get the  actual  states  using,  right, the  inlets  and  the  isotropic, um,  um,  you  know,  enthalpies. And  then  the  final  part  of  this  one that  was  kind  of  a  little  bit,  you  know, tricky  was  that  it  was  the w.net  out  divided  by  q.in, was  the  correct  route  to  go. The  reason  being  that  this  was  not actually  a  closed  loop  cycle. State  five  and  nine  were  different. If  you  wanted  to  connect  them, you  totally  could,  and  therefore, you  could  use  this  approach, but  you'd  have  to  have  essentially a  fictitious  heat  exchanger that  you  would  draw here  to  get  that  do  that  extra  Q  dot  out turn  step  to  get you  back  to  state  five,  okay? And  again,  the  whole  reason  why  you  would  do this  a  top  and  bottom  cycle is  because  you  want  to  eke  out. You  don't  just  want  to  waste,  right, that  heat  and  exhaust  into  the  atmosphere. Regenerators  do  okay,  but  with  this  approach, according  to  the  book,  you'll  get to  a  better  performance by  combining  them,  okay? And  again,  just  to  remind  you, that's  a  big  number,  okay? 62%  is  a  large  number for  a  power  plant,  all  right? Questions?  Yes,  please. So  the  pressure  ratio  it's  only  State  five. Yeah,  so  pressure  ratios is  six  to  five,  right? So  PR,  I've  used  it  here. So  when  I  say  a  pressure  ratio, the  topping  cycle  is a  gas  turbine  cycle  that has  a  pressure  ratio  of  eight. This  means  that  the  pressure  at  state six  is  equal  to eight  times  the  pressure at  state  five,  right? This  applies  to  the  compressor. Because,  you  know, here  we  have  essentially a  heat  exchanger  and  a  heat  exchanger, it  also  means  that  you  know  the  pressure at  state  seven,  right? Because  essentially  that's an  isoberic  device. But  when  we  did  this  analysis, a  pressure  ratio  that  was specific  to  the  compressor,  right? Is  that  clear?  Other  questions? Questions  on  this  side? No?  Okay,  cool. So  this  is  what  it  would  look  like, the  two  different  ones. So  this  is  what  you're  ranking, the  bottoming  cycle  would  look  like  NTS. This  is  what  the  topping  cycle would  look  like  for  the  Brayton. Of  course,  if  I  want  heat  exchange  to  happen, I'd  have  to  look  at  9-8  A,  right? So  nine  tops  out  at  about  400 or  so,  AA  at  800. And  then  this  is  your  heat  in,  right, from  300  up  to  like  750  there,  right? So  because  we  haven't  done  109  yet, but  if  you  want  heat  exchange  to  happen, as  we  recognized  from  earlier  in  this  course, you  must  maintain  Delta  Ts,  right? So  it  makes  sense,  right, that  this  temperature  is  less than  the  inlets  and  vice  versa, but  they  can't  be  too  out  of  whack,  right? And  this  problem  was  basically  given  to  you, but  that  would  be another  consideration  is  that ideally  you  would  perfectly match  your  temperatures  there, minimizing  irreversibilities  and  all  of  that, okay? And  I  tried  to draw  both  these  things  on  here. I've  done  it  for  other  ones,  but  yeah, Pike  Are  said,  No,  not  to  me  today. Okay.  So  the  final  way, so  I'll  just  I'll  say  this  one  with  words. And  if  I'm  not going  to  have  time  to go  through  the  whole  thing. If  that  one  was  a  slog, this  one  is  like  I  mean, it's,  but  you  can't  follow  it. It  is  a  very interesting  it is  quite  an  interesting  system, but  I'll  explain  to you  what  we're  doing  here. So  a  lot  of  times, so  I'll  have  let's  say  I  have  a  gas  turbine and  I'll  have  waste  heat or  whatever  that's  coming  out  of  it. Previously, in  the  previous  example,  we  took  that, we  ran  a  steam  turbine, and  we  got  some  efficiencies. Most  of  the  energy  used  in this  world  is  not  electricity, though,  is  heat,  right? So  a  majority  of the  energy  is  used  in  some  form  of  heat. And  engineering,  we  call  this  a  lot  of times  as  process  heat  process  heat. You  want  to  think  about  how  you  do refining  of  something,  think  of  aluminum. You  know,  you  think of  any  materials  production, there's  a  lot  of  process  heat involved  in  those  industries,  right?  A  lot. So  it  may  make  sense  then, depending  on  where  you  are  and where  you  have  a  gas  turbine, to  take  the  heat  off  of that  and  actually  use  it  just  to  heat. I  think  down  in  San  Diego  and  on  campus  here, I  forget  the  situation  here  on  campus, we're  kind  of  in  a,  um, in  a  state  of  transition. But  for  example,  when  I  was  in  Chicago, we  had  a  lot  of  hospitals  that  were  there. And  so  what  they  would  do  is  we had  a  cogen  facility. So  this  is  in  energy  speak,  is  called  CoGen. So  the  CoGen  facility we  had  there  produced  our  own  power, natural  gas  turbine,  and the  waste  heat  was  used to  produce  steam,  right? So  we  basically  district  heating. Hospitals  need  a  lot  of  steam,  right? They  sterilized  stuff,  right? There's  a  lot  of  heat that's  needed  for  that,  but  also  buildings. It's  a  cold  place,  right? And  so  you  could  use  you  basically  would  have sort  of  this  underground  steam that  was  used  there. And  so  you  can  go  into  and do  those  analysis,  um, And  you  can  also  come  up  with a  measure  of  efficiency. So  I  can  write  it,  let's  say,  maybe  here. And  so  the  one  difference. So  if  you  think  about,  you  know, our  definition  of  efficiency, something  that  I  desire  divided  by something  I  have  to  pay  for,  right? So  for  a  system  like  this  with that  sort  of  measure  of  efficiency, what  they'll  write  is  Epsilon,  right? Epsilon  would  be  like, you  know,  aw.net  out,  okay? Divided  by  aq.in  plus, let's  say,  some  heat  transferred out  for  process  heat,  okay? And  the  nice  part  about that  is  that,  like,  you  know, what  originally  was  problematic where  I  needed  to  take  heat out  of  my  cycle  to  make  it  run suddenly  looks  attractive,  right? That's  in  my  enumerator  with an  addition  sign,  not  a  negative  sign. And  so  these  numbers  can  get  very  large, right,  80%  You  know, you  can  get  to  a  very  large  number if  you  run  with  Cogen, and  that's  why  it  was  done,  you  know? So  like  this  was when  I  was  when  I  was  a  student, your  age,  there  was  a  very  popular  thing to  do  with  gas  turbines, Cogen,  and  get  these  things  to  get  up  to a  very  a  very  high  value  with  that. So  again,  if  you  see  that  in  the  textbook, I  don't  think  we  have any  homework  problems  with  it, but  if  you  want  to  see, like  something  in  this  class  that's  actually implemented  and  used  like  that,  okay? Um,  And  what  are,  like, key  things  in  the  analysis of  this  if  you  want  to  get  into  it,  right? We  have  this  mixing  chamber,  right? So  that's,  like,  the  first  thing.  We  looked at  the  mixing  chambers  before. This  is  where  streams  mix,  okay? So  you  have sort  of  something  cold  and  something moderately  hot  and  you  mix it  and  it  goes  into  the  boiler. These  are  isobaric,  right? So  they're  constant  pressure.  That's  one. The  second  thing,  and  I  think the  only  other  thing  that  you  haven't seen  before  is  then  this  process  heater. What  it  is  not  indicated  on  this  is that  you  do  have  a  Q  dot  outer,  right? There  is  a  Q  dot  outerm, but  it's  one  that's  actually, you  know,  helpful  for  you. And  in  the  analysis,  as  it's  done  here, it  goes  between  like  two  limits, one  where  there's  no  workout, another  one  where  there's no  process  heat  out, and  another  one  where  you  essentially split  MDOT  streams,  okay? So  in  a  problem  like  this, you'd  have  some  global  MDOT,  let's  say, 11-1,  and  then  at  this  point, you  have  to  split,  and  that's information  that  must  be  given,  right? So  a  fraction  of  the  mass will  go  towards  my  process  heater,  right? Good.  A  fraction  of  the  mass  out  of my  turbine  at  relatively  high  pressure will  go  to  the  process  heater. The  other  will  go  to  it,  okay? That's  it.  Like,  you know,  here's  a  new  thing. It's  a  cute  out  out  term  and  two  pieces  of information  about  how  much  mass  is  diverted, and  the  rest  of  it  is  cookie  cutter. This  is  really  nothing  new  there,  okay? With  that,  I'm  going  to close  about  5  seconds  early. If  you  have  questions  about this,  please  come  up. Otherwise,  I  will  see  you  in  office  hours, I  think  tomorrow  at  noon. And  on  Wednesday,  we  start, I  believe,  with  refrigeration.  Thank  you.
