I've  got  you  ten,  so  let's  get  started. Welcome  to  MU  40. If  you're  not  in  this  class,  you  can  leave. If  you're  not  in  the  class,  you're welcome  to  learn  today  about  thermodynamics. Of  course,  theme,  so what  do  we  talk  about  in  thermo? Energy,  right?  So  timely ones  today  we  talk about  the  conversion  of  it. So  you  think  about  photovoltaics,  right? This  is  like  the  most  a  fastly  growing  area of  energy  systems. We  think  about  systems  that  are consuming  lots  of  energy  at  the  moment. Think  about  data  centers, right,  large  language  models,  right? The  third  part  of  it  is because  this  is  intermittent, we  think  a  lot  about  how  we  store  energy. So  because  of  the  fact  that  we  receive  it, we  need  to  store  this  and  figure out  how  to  use  this. So  this  is  basically  the  theme  of our  course,  our  team. So,  um,  Cassie  McCormick  is  the  head  GSI. I'm  joined  also  by  GSI Jessica  Woo  here  and  our  reader, Dear  Baldwa,  very  capable  team. These  two  are  a  member  of  my  research  group, and  I've  already  worked  with  Dear  as a  reader  last  semester  form, wing  46,  so  energy  conversion  principles. The  point  is,  I  think  you're  in  good  hands. You  have  a  motivated  group, a  little  about  myself. So  I've  been  teaching  thermo for  the  better  part  of  11  years. So  I  was  overseas  for  about  ten  years. I  taught  at  Teja. It's  where  Einstein  was  a  student, a  famously  very  bad  student. So  if  you  want  to  learn  anything  about  him, you  don't  go  to  Zurich,  you have  to  go  to  the  Capitol  Bern. If  you  read  a  little  bit about  him  and  his  stories, there's  two  things  that  are  great. Um,  was  about  his friendships,  stories  of  friendships. The  first  is  he  had  a  friend  who  kind  of helped  him  get  through  his  courses because  he  was  bored  to  death. They  were  teaching  the  old  physics. He  wanted  to  learn  about  the  newest  kind of  friend  gave  him notes  and  helped  them  around. Maybe  helpful  for  some  of  you  here. And  the  second  thing  is  that  friend  also got  him  his  first  job  out  of  school,  right? So  he  got  him  a  job  at  the  patent  office. And  for  those  who  don't  know, that's  where  we  went  to  write  on basically  his  most  famous  famous  works were  there  is  his, uh  apartments  there,  but a  coffee  shop  in  Burns. If  you  ever  find  yourself  there. It's  very  beautiful  walking, you  can  kind  of  see. And  then  when  you  look  from that  apartment  and  you  walk, you  can  see  what's  called  the  Glockenspiel, basically  a  big  clock. And  so  you  can  get  this  idea  of  walking towards  and  away  from  the  clock and  maybe  some  insight  into  what he  was  thinking  about  on  a  daily. So  not  our  tower, but  a  big  kind  of  like  a  tower, but  a  much  bigger  clock  kind  of  CS. Learning  objectives  for  the  course,  right? So  we're  going  to  talk  a  lot  about  laws, primarily  the  first  and  second  law  there. You're  going  to  be  able  to  say  this.  So  you go  to  a  party,  talk  to  some  friends. You  say,  it's  the  first  and the  second  law.  This  is  how  I  think  about  it. You're  going  to  be  able  to  do  some  simple, single  answer  problems. I  with  first  law, first  and  second  law, and  then  we  get  into  this. So  a  lot  of  this  is  sort  of  foundational. Hopefully, you  stay  with  me  because  after  that, you'll  see  the  utility  of  it. You  need  much  bigger  systems and  like  the  ones  I  was  talking  about, you  know,  before,  perpetual  mobile. So  basically  cycles  that  violate, first  and  second  law,  and then  really  get  into  thermodynamic  data. So  in  this  class,  you might  have  heard  about  like  tables. I  think  you  should  love  fans  there. Okay,  so  that  missed. But  the  point  is  that old  school  was  that  you  had  a  book. Mostly  why  people  hate  this  kind of  class  is  that  they  had  to  sit  there, look  at  this  end  of  the  book appendix  and  figure  out  things. Here,  we  use  Python, right?  We  use  module. So  I  encourage  you  from  today, if  you  don't  feel  comfortable  in  Python, which  you  should  because  it's a  prerect  to  this,  learn  this. So  we  have  homework  problems  and  stuff. It's  not  sophisticated  Python. I  was  raised  on  Fortran. Does  anyone  know  what  Fortran  is? One,  two.  Okay,  so my  hardcore  ones  out  there. So  everything  runs  on  trait. You  just  don't  know  it.  But,  you  know, I  also  taught  myself  Python,  right? So  if  I  can  do  it  with  no  class, surely  you  all  are  capable. Our  homework,  some  house  scheming  our homework's  done  through  a  website called  Prairie  Learn. This  is  a  fantastic  homework. Suite,  it's  also  how  we'll run  all  of  our  assessments. So  the  way  that  you  practice  in your  homework  is  going  to  be exactly  how  you  did  practice  for  assessments. So  if  you  haven't  already,  go  and enroll  at  this  website,  look  for  ME  40. The  way  to  see  the  course  in  terms  of organization  is  that  we  have  three  modules. First  law,  second  law, applications.  That's  it. Okay?  If  this  is  like  the  Tour  de  France, these  are  flat  stages. You  think,  okay,  I did  good  in  this,  I  feel  good. This  is  the  Pyrenees.  This  is  the  Alps. This  is  like  pain,  right? This  is,  I'm  not  going  to  lie  to  you. This  is  like,  you  know,  this  hurts. If  you  can  survive  that  part  of  it, from  this  point  on,  everything  is basically  very  straightforward,  okay, with  the  exception  of maybe  chemical  reactions for  mechanical  engineers, myself,  chemistry  I'm deeply  comfortable  with. But  yeah,  basically,  up  until  that  point, it's  pretty  straight  forward. So  it's  kind  of  like  flat,  a  big  mountain, and  maybe  not  exactly  downhill, but  maybe  a  bit  flatter  there. In  the  B  courses,  right? So  within  each  module,  we  have  pages. On  those  pages,  right, we  have  to  do  before  lecture, to  do  by  the  end  of  the  module, and  to  read  for  that  week. And  I  can't  emphasize  enough  staying  with that  analogy  of  the  Tour de  France  and  cycling. This  is  a  class  that is  very  easy  to  get  behind. It's  easy  to  stay  on  track. You  just  be  disciplined, you  read,  you  do  what I  tell  you,  you'll  be  on  track. But  if  you  don't,  you  will  fall  behind, and  it  is  very  difficult to  catch  back  up,  okay? So  the  main  thing  is,  like,  for  this  week, I  want  you  to  read  Chapter  one.  Read  it. Today,  you  go  and  you  read,  and, you  know,  you  basically  get ahead  and  it's  do  it. The  homework  in  each  of the  modules  is  released  now. So  the  first  five  homework  are  there. I  encourage  you  to,  like, get  through  that,  especially homeworks  one,  two,  and  three. Learn  the  Python  module for  deserving  properties, get  comfortable  with  this. It  will  serve  you  very  well  when  it comes  time  to  homeworks  four  and  five, and  especially  quiz  one,  okay?  Okay. I  record,  so  I  like  openness, so  I  already  have all  the  videos  from  last  year  there. I'll  record  all  of  these  and  post  them. If  we  ever  do  discussions, I  don't  record  discussions. I  think  recording  and  a  discussion tends  to  kind  of  stifle  it  a  bit. So  in  my  opinion,  I  don't  record  that,  okay? So  if  you  want  discussion,  be  here,  okay? If  you  don't  want  to  be here,  you're  an  adult. You  spent  your  money, spent  your  parents  money, whatever,  like,  you  want to  come  or  not,  that's  up  to  you,  okay? You're  an  adult  and  decide  that. What  I  will  tell  you  is  sometimes the  visual  audio  doesn't  work,  okay? That  camera,  for  example, is  turned  like  40  degrees too  far  to  the  left. So  today,  I  have to  keep  the  board  exactly  here. Sometimes  the  batteries  are not  and  I'm  replacing  batteries. It's  not  personal.  I'm  not trying  to,  like,  you  know, create,  you  know,  some withholding  system  like  that. Sometimes  things  just  don't  work, and  I'm  sorry  for  that. And  so  I  can't  upload  them. Okay,  are  there  any  questions about  that  before  I  dive  in? One  Mississippi,  two  Mississippi.  Okay. Cool.  So  challenges  in  decarbonizing. So  this  article  posted this  is  from  two  years  ago. New  York  Times  went through  and  was  looking  into  sort  of the  solution  at  that  time and  how  we  were  dealing  with  emissions. And  the  way  that  you  could describe  it  as  roughly, we're  just  going  to  plug  it  all  in. We're  basically  just  going  to  plug  in almost,  you  know,  everything. So  at  that  time,  that's  now four  years  ago,  You  know, you  typically would  distribute  things  by  sector. So  transportation  is  by far  the  largest  of  it. Industry,  the  second,  residential, and  then  commercial. If  you  look  into the  transportation  part  of  it, a  lot  of  it's  just  passengers,  right? In  the  United  States, who  drive  everywhere,  right? I  grew  up  in  the  Midwest. It's  not  uncommon  to do  5  hours  just  because  why  not? You  can  just  do  that,  um,  you  know,  there, but  also  into  heavy  duty  trucks, trains,  right? We  have  basically  the  best freight  rail  in  the  world, you  know,  here  for  that,  right? You  have  other  ones  that,  if  you  look  into the  industry,  chemicals,  right? These  are  things  that  require high  process  temperature,  process  heat. So  things  that  are  in  the  news  a lot  now  are  rare  minerals,  right? Metals,  right?  Copper  is  at  the  highest  price that  it's  ever  been  in  history,  right? All  of  these  things  require refining  and  a  lot  of  energy, a  lot  of  a  lot  of  um,  heat,  steel,  right? These  require  a  lot  of  energy  into it  to  do  it. On  the  residential  side, the  dominating  thing  is space  heat  space  heating,  right? Berkeley  in  California  in  general, we're  kind  of  blessed  with  a  lot  of  warmth, but  a  good  chunk  of  the  US  and the  world  is  not  with  that. And  so,  you  know, big  consumption  in  natural  gas. They're  also  into  cooking. And  on  the  commercial  side, it's  kind  of  a  mix  there  largely reflects  what  you  would  see  probably  in the  residential  um,  side. So  nomenclature  into  this. If  you  look  at the  literature  and  you  read  and especially  about  energy  in  a  large  scales, you'll  see  things  like  quad. So  a  quad  is  1 quadrillion  British  thermal  units. I'm  not  going  to  tell  you  what  a  BTU  is. I'm  against  it,  but it  exists.  You  can  look  it  up. The  point  is  that  one  BTU  is 1055  joules  there,  right? The  joules  and  Newton  meter,  okay? So  how  much  of  that  currently  of that  makeup  came  from  electricity  then, right  in  transportation,  in  2021, very  little  was  electric  in  spite  of what  You  see,  and  you  read,  right? A  lot  of  it  was  still  a  couple  of  years  ago just  with  gasoline. On  the  chemical  side,  as I  mentioned,  you  know,  in  the  US, you  look  also  at countries  like  Germany  and  that, where  they  have  big  process  industries. A  lot  of  that  is  natural  gas and  heating  and  coal  with  it. And  space  heating,  right, it's  a  larger  size  of  it  is  electric, and  that  has  to  do  with  the  fact, and  what  we'll  go  over  into  this  course for  what's  called  heat  pumps,  right? So  the  heat  pump,  the  beautiful  thing  about a  heat  pump  is  that  if I  put  in  one  unit  of  electricity, I  can  move  three  units  of  heat  with  it,  okay? So  That  just  makes  economic  sense,  right? Like,  by  definition, that's  a  very  efficient  way  to  do it  versus  a  classical  way that  I  put  one  unit  of, let's  say,  chemical  energy  and  I  burn  it, I  get  one  unit  of  heat  out  of  that. You  know,  that's  a  losing  game  for  it. So  that's  why  something  like  that looks  like  it's  already  developed. Also  because,  again, if  I  go  back  to  my  Midwest, a  lot  of  buildings there  for  historical  reasons, already  have  central  air  conditioning. So  they  already  have air  conditioning  systems. A  heat  pump  is  nothing but  an  air  conditioning  system running  reverse,  okay? So  think  about  an  air  conditioner,  right? I  take  heat  in the  building  and  I  pump  it  out,  right? A  heat  pump  is,  I  take  heat  from the  outside  and  I  pump  it  in  there. So  infrastructure,  and  we  already  have  a  lot of  solutions  for  how  to  do  that. Okay?  If  you  look  at  20:50,  and  again, this  was  a  couple  of  years  ago  in the  projections  with  it, things  were  always  getting constantly  more  and  more  efficient. So  you  would  expect  that  the overall  consumption  to decrease  And if  you  look  at  the  different  sectors, things  like  space  heating,  further  adoption into  heat  pumps, better  insulation  and buildings  gets  you  there. You  think  about  transportation, passenger  vehicles,  you  know, Tesla's,  right,  General  Motors doing  a  lot  of  what  they  do into  their  Chevy  bolts. The  equinox, like,  you'll  see  around  here,  like, a  lot  of  those  vehicles  are  already right  electrified,  so  that's  straightforward. But  then  you'll  see  other  things,  right? Notable  one  here  is  aviation. Does  anyone  know  why  we are  not  going  to  be  able  to electrify  like  a  Boeing  or  an  airbus? The  battery  is  what?  They're  too  heavy. Fuel  is  also  kind  of  heavy. Name  and  answer Kai  Yes. So  that's  a  specific  type  of  proposal, maybe  something  you  would do  right  in  deep  space, but  wasn't  work.  Other  ideas? So  I  need  a  name  and  then  loud. I  need  the  intensity  higher. The  net  density  of  energy  dens. I  think  it's  coming  to  it.  One  more. Battery  charges. Yeah. So  charge  times.  So  if you  think  about  a  cell  phone  in  charging, how  many  years  can  you  go  on a  cell  phone  before  you  have to  replace  your  battery? I  Five. That's  amazing.  Okay. So  I'm  probably  at  like  two  into  it,  right? So  it's  about  1,000  cycles,  right? You  basically  do  about  1,000  cycles  lithium ion  roughly  there  before  it's  gone. If  you  took  planes  and  you  wanted  to  do  that, first  of  all,  they'd  be massive  batteries,  right? Huge  install.  One  and  two, you'd  have  to  throw  them out  every  six  months. Like  gone,  right? So  that's  a  very  basically that  is  not  there's  other  ones  that'll  work. You  go  to  Alaska,  you  want  to  go into  Cessna,  electrify  that  there. Like,  there's  cases,  but  it's not  going  to  like  flying  here, Europe,  here, Australia,  you  know,  Asia  and  stuff. Like  that's  just  not  at current  and  future  looking at  trends  like  with  this, like,  that's  not  going  to  cut  it. And  so  the  thing  is,  like,  how does  one  do  that? Where  I  was  before,  people who  looked  at  this  seriously were  constructing  massive  solar  fields. Like,  in  my  old  building,  we  had a  big  I  mean, it  looked  like  an  old  satellite  dish. The  big  ones,  they're  a  big  old  dish, concentrated  all  the  sunlight  into  an  area. You  fed  it  water,  you  fed it  CO  two  and  into  a  catalyst, and  you  produce  methane  out  of  it, and  basically  they  produce  fuel. So  like  Swiss  that's a  big  airline  that's  Switzerland. They're  basically  we're  buying  from a  company  S  Helion  and  stuff that  we're  looking  into  this  as  a  technology. But  pretty  much  it's  like  liquid  fuel, and  you  got  to  figure  out  like, how  you're  going  to  do  that  in a  sustainable  way because  electrons,  you  know, for  that  reason  and the  heavy  reason  and  the  fact  that the  batteries  don't  last is  not  going  to  cut  it. The  long  haul  trucking, heavy  duty  stuff,  that's also  an  area  that's  quite  difficult,  right? So  that's  just  an  area  where,  again, for  the  same  reason  with  batteries,  you  know, semi  trucks  here  drive 1  million  miles,  right? Like,  that's  just,  like,  not  hard  for them  to  do  several  million  miles  and  with  it. And  so  for  the  same  reason  there, you  have  to  think  about,  like, what's  going  to  be  a  potential  replacement, you  know,  they  into  petroleum. And  on  the  industrial  side, sort  of  the  same  thing,  like,  how  do you  get  to  these  high  temperatures? There's  some  fantastic  startups in  the  area  that  look, for  example,  and  tour  is  one  of  them. They  take,  yeah,  I'm  also  not  a  rich  person. I  have  no  boards  or connection  to  any  of  these  companies. So  basically,  they  take  photons,  right? So  they  take  like  sunlight, they  produce  electricity,  and  what they  do  is  they  just  heat  up  graphite. They  just  heat  up,  like, blocks  of,  you  know, I  mean,  almost  like  coal,  right? They  heat  that  up  really  hot, and  those  things  can  store a  lot  of  theral  energy, and  then  they  basically  then  circulate  a or  fluid  over  that  and  then  use  that  there. So  that's  kind  of  like  thermal batteries  and  what's  done  with  it. So  the  chemicals,  the  aviation, you  know,  in  general, like,  shipping  and  stuff, these  are  like  three  of  the  most  difficult  to decarbonize  areas. Yeah.  Okay.  I  could  go  on  and  on  with  it. So  that's  one  factor,  right, and  that's  like  looking for  a  couple  of  years. One  thing  that  was,  like, unanticipated,  right, from  a  couple  of  years  ago and  looking  into  it  had everything  to  do  with demand  for  compute,  right? So  what  I'm  showing  you  on  this  plot  is essentially  a  measure  of  calculations,  right? Let's  say  calculations  that  are done  by  a  computer  against  year,  right? And  this  dashed  line  like frontier  compute  models. So,  you  know,  chat,  Gemini,  right? So  it's sort  of  the  most  common  ones  that  are  there. The  third  thing  that's  done  is showing  The  number  of graphical  processing  units,  GPUs, these  are  basically  special  kind of  processors  that  are  good  for,  like, linear  algebra  and  machine  learning and  the  amount  of  power  that  they  draw,  okay? So  like  one  GPU  draws  about  700  watts,  okay? So  what's  a  hairdryer? Anyone  know  what  a  hairdryer  is? Hey,  you  have  really  long  hair. I  know  this.  So  it's  about  1,000  watts. You  can  draw  the  w  about  1,200 watts  from  the  wall  there. So,  one  GPU  is  basically like  a  hairdryer  that's  there. So  these  models  a  couple  of  years  ago, you  had  10,000  of  those,  all  right? Present  day,  those  ones now  have  300,000  to  them. You  look  at  like  Elon, what  they  have  in  Tennessee, Colossus,  that's  about  100,000  GPUs. They're  looking  at a  couple  hundred  thousand  and  1  million in  the  near  future. So  25-500  megawatts. You  look  to  2030. So  let's  say  we  follow  this  frontier compute  growth  trend  there, you're  going  to  be having  a  single  data  center that's  drawing  10  gigawatts,  okay? So  you  don't  have  to  know  what  a  gigawatt  is. I  can  tell  you  it's  a big  is  a  very  big  number. Okay.  The  second  plot  that  I'll  show  you  is annual  US  Data  Center  energy  use in  terawatt  hours,  okay? So  terawatt  is a  big  also  a  big  a  pretty  big  number. Basically,  we  use  about  14  globally, something  around  like  ten  to  20  terawatts. It's  pretty  much  what  the global  capacity  for  energy  use. And  that's  against  years,  all  right? And  so  for  a  number  of  years, though,  right,  things  were  very, very  flat,  an  inflection point  at  about  20:20. And  again,  you  know,  various sort  of  projections,  right? This  purple  region  is sort  of  that  mid  level  of  data  centers. Here  is  like  the  ten  gigawatt, you  know,  level,  okay? This  dot  here,  just  to give  you  reference  as to  what  this  would  mean, was  in  2021, California's  total  electricity  generation. So  in  a  couple  of  years, all  of  the  electricity  that  we consume  for  data  centers  will exceed  essentially  California's  generation. And  it's  the  biggest  state,  right? Even  like  mid  level  estimates, you  know,  okay? Not  the  most  conservative,  but  mid  level ones  that  are  that  are  there,  okay? Um,  Yeah. And  so  just  for  reference, then  that's  like,  you  know, 4,000  terawatt  hours  is what  the  total  US  consumption  was. So  that  number  is  then  about  10%,  right? So  this  is  about  10%, there  are  scenarios  where people  look  and  they say  about  10%,  right,  which  would  be  up  here. At  the  extreme  end.  10%  of all  electricity  consumption  in the  United  States  by  2030  is going  to  be  Data  Center,  right? So,  okay.  And  the  reason  is  this,  right? So  that  only  happens  because  there  is such  a  demand  for  compute  from  anyone,  okay? So  those  are  sort  of  the  two  tails  of electricity  that  I  see. If  you  care  about  things like  this  in  the  spring, I'll  be  teaching  with  my  colleague, Professor  Zodi  a  class  essentially  on data  center  modeling  and energy  management  system  modeling. So  we'll  go  a  lot  further  into sort  of  the  specifics  of  this  and the  language  and  what  goes  on. In  terms  of,  like,  careers, there's  roughly  about  3,000 jobs  in  this  country  that  need somebody  who  knows  thermal  and really  good  modeling  for  it. So  I  think  mechanical  engineering is  a  very  timely,  smart  thing. Do.  Aero  is  also  very  good,  but, I  mean,  there's  nothing  that's,  like, in  the  news  more  than  that. Okay? So  there's  our  theme,  energy  conversion, decarbonizing,  and  storage,  okay? So  but  before  we  get  to  that, we  got  to  learn  to  walk,  maybe  to  crawl. Alright? Um,  Okay,  so  we're,  you  know,  really, thermodynamics  is  essentially  about starting  with  drawing  boundaries. So  we  talk  really  just  about, like,  you  know,  a  box,  okay? Into  this  box,  we  put,  like,  heap. The  box  usually  has  some  mass. We  can  put  some  work  into  it. We  can  basically  take  some  work  out  of  it. The  boundary  that  we  look at  here  This  can  basically  grow. This  can  shrink.  It  should just  sort  of  contain  whatever else  was  had  into  it. The  other  thing  with  all  of  this  is, right,  this  is  heat  in,  this  is  workout. Those  are  like  processes. A  lot  of  times,  if we  define  sort  of  the  mass  of  this  thing, we'll  talk  about  properties like  temperature  and  pressure, and  with  that,  we'll  be able  to  say  a  lot  of  things  about  it. So  this  pretty  much  talks  about  the  state. So  let's  begin  with  our  first  one, and  I  just  want  to  make  sure  that  I  can  see. Um,  So  as  a  beginning  point  here, we  can  talk  about  work. So  some  basic  physics,  right? So  our  differential  of  work  here, let's  say  in  a  scenario  like  that, it's  going  to  let's  say  we  have a  force  that  we're  applying. Here's  my  dry  eraser. Okay,  let's  say,  You  know, maybe  this  is  like  a  piston. So  what's  a  piston.  A  piston  is essentially  like  a  cylinder,  right? And  at  the  other  end, anyone  who's  ever,  like, filled  up  a  bike  before,  you know,  a  bike  tire,  right? You  go  up  and  down,  and  you  compress  the  air. So  you  have  here,  like  a  piston, and  this  piston  head could  move,  you  know,  some  distance, let's  say,  you  know,  you  know, DS,  and  maybe  there's  a  force, right, that's  being  applied  that  moves  it  up,  right? So  this  work  transferred  is nothing  but  that  force  times that  distance,  you  know,  move. Okay? So  that's  sort  of  the  first  thing  that  we have  as  a  definition  is  that.  Um,  right? The  second  thing  that  I  had mentioned  is  that  we're largely  concerned  in  order to  understand  these  processes, we're  largely  concerned with  what's  called  states. To  know  a  state,  we  talk  about  properties. So  things  like  temperature, pressure,  and specific  volume  are  three  of  the  most, let's  say,  important  three  of the  most  important  ones that  are  that  are  there. Okay,  to  define  a  process  here. So  let's  say  this  is at  something  like  state  one. If  I  were  to  look  at  this,  and I  let  that  piston  head expand  to  a  higher,  you  know, position  inside  here, I  can  talk  again  about  a  temperature, a  pressure,  a  specific  volume, and  that's  a  state  two. And  pretty  much  the  whole  class  is  about, you  know,  stringing  together,  like, really  defining  figuring  out the  properties  that  we know  about  the  problem, defining  them  the  state, and  then  from  that  moving to  another  state,  all  right? And  the  outputs  of  that  are  things like  work  or  heat, okay?  Cool.  Let's  move. This  is  also  the  cleanest I've  ever  seen  the  white  boards  in  this  room. They  aren't  going  to  look  this  good again  for  the  rest  of  the  semester. All  right.  Okay. Okay,  so  let's  now  consider instead  of  our  piston, let's  consider  another  experiment,  right? So  in  this  experiment,  let's  say  we  have, you  know,  a  ground  here,  okay? We  have  a  weight.  Let's  say  that the  weight  has  a  mass  Omega. Let's  say  that  this  weight  is  attached  to  Oh, man,  I'm  so  bad  at  drawing. Right,  attached  to  a  pulley,  okay? Okay.  Basically,  it's  attached to,  like,  a  pulley, and  maybe  this  pulley  has  some  kind of  crank  and  we  can  use  to, um,  All  right, textual  pulley,  should  look  like  that. The  crank  that  we  can  use  to,  like, rotate  and  lift  that  up. And  let's  say  we  do  that. So  we  have  some  external  actor that's  out  here  that  starts cranking  this  and  lifts  it,  right? This  is  then  going  to  be  brought  up. Let's  say  to  some  height  here. Let's  say  initially  we have  some  supporting  surface  here, and  then  we  move  that  in, and  we  rest  it  there,  right? And  then  the  height  that  we  have  for this  displacement  is  then  age. So  we  have  a  surface  S  here, a  weight  here,  a  pulley,  you  know, someone  literally  turning a  crank  to  raise  that  up. This  initial  state  here, we'll  call  it  state  one. This  other  one  here  we'll  call  as, um,  state  two,  okay? And  the  reason  why  we're  able to  move  that  is  right  there  is  someone who's  outside  here  who's  transferring  that work  in  to  move  it  up. We  could  also  consider  a  scenario  here where  we  let  it  go  back  down  to  one,  right? And  in  order  to  let  that go  back  down,  we'll  also, you  know,  have  to  be  applying sort  of  a  force  resisting, you  know,  that  movement  back  to the  surface  so  that  it's  done  slowly,  right? And  if  we  look  at  going  1-2  to  one, we  can  talk  about  the  change in  the  work,  right? And  that  complete  integral there  right  is  then  equal  to  zero,  right? Because  we  took  this  thing. We  lifted  it  up  to  a height  very  slowly,  right? We  didn't  do  anything  where there's  a  lot  of  friction. And  then  we  basically  released  it, brought  it  back  down  very  slowly  to  that. So  we  did  work  to  transfer  up, and  then  we  received  work  or transferred  work  out  then  when  it  went  there, and  the  result  of  that  of one  to  two  to  one  is  we  have no  change  in  work,  okay? Okay. Times  that.  Cool. All  right,  so  we  can  do  this  experiment. A  similar  experiment  again,  of, like,  raising  and  lowering  weights. Um  And  the  point  this  time, let's  say  this  is  our  weight,  which  is  here. Let's  say  this  goes  up  again  to  a  pulley. So  we  have  some  pulley  here,  right, where  we're,  you  know, wrapping  our  rope  around. This  is  then  going  into  a  container  here. Let's  say  this  container  is  full  with  liquid. Let's  say  we  can  measure  the  temperature inside  here  with  a  thermometer. And  instead  of  transferring  this  work, let's  say,  you  know, out  of  this  system  into  what might  be  like,  potential  energy, maybe  there's  another  weight  out  here  that you're  lifting  and  lowering. In  this  case,  what  we'd  like  to  do  is to  dissipate  that  with  a  break,  right? So  this  is  basically  a  break  here,  okay? And  so  if  we  do,  let's  say, if  we  were  to  take  this  from,  let's  say, like  a  state  one,  which  is  here, and  then  we  lower  that  down,  you  know, let's  say,  you  know,  some  distance. Let's  say  that  distance  is  then, you  know,  something  like,  you  know, something  like  the  H  that  we  had  there, where  we'd  have  that  process,  okay? So  we  can  go  one  to  two  with  that.  All  right. So  you  would  take  this, and  release  some  energy. That'd  be  transferring  to  the  b. And  the  result  of  that  is  that  you  would heat  up  the  fluid  here,  right? And  so  my  question  is,  how  do  you  return? So  if  I,  again,  release  the  potential  energy, I  heat  up  the  water  here. How  do  you  return  back  to  state  one? No.  Okay.  That's  it,  right? So  to  go  back,  you  need  to  cool,  right? To  get  back  to,  to  state  one  there,  right? And  what  should  be  clear  from this  case  is  that  if  we  go  one  to  two  to  one, this  integral, right,  that  we  have  written  before, it's  not  equal  to  zero,  right? This  is  what  we  would  call  essentially an  irreversible  process, or  you've  done  something  and  you  can't get  it  back,  okay? And  People  like  Joule, so  who  the  unit  of  energy  is  named  after did  a  lot  of  experiments that  were  like  this,  right? So  a  lot  of experiments  like  that  where  you  raise and  lower  the  heat  or  especially  this  type, where  you  lower  a  weight,  okay? So,  you  know,  you  take,  you  know, some  change,  let's  say, an  energy,  and  you  produce  it. You  know,  you  transfer  that  then, you  know,  and  generate heat  in  a  system,  right? In  the  19th  century, this  was,  like,  a  big  problem. People  used  to  take, like,  cannon  bores,  right? And  they  would,  you  know, try  to  bore  them  out. And  at  that  time,  people didn't  really  understand  what  he  was. They  thought  it  was  called  caloric  theory. They  thought  it  flowed,  you  know,  like  water, basically,  um,  um,  you  know,  flows  there. And  so  these  were, like,  deep  questions  that  they  were, you  know,  concerned  with  was  the mechanisms  and  what  went  on. And  so  what  Joel  did is  through  like  a  series  of, like,  weights  and lowering  them  different  heights, and  then  measuring  the  change  in  temperature, what  he  showed  was  that, um,  dq,  which  stands  for  heat,  right,  minus. So  this  is  heap  in minus  the  complete  integral of  work  transfer  out  was then  equal  to  zero,  okay? This  is  called  sometimes  the mechanical  equivalent  of  heat,  right? So  it  may  be  obvious  to  us  now, but  again,  I  can't  emphasize  enough  that, like,  people  used  to  think  that  it  was like  he  was  a  substance,  right? Um,  This  is  one  statement of  the  first  law  of  thermodynamics,  right? So  I,  you  know, one  way  to  look  at  the  first  law  is that  energy  is  conserved. So  if  I  take  all  of the  net  heat  right into  this  system,  you  know, doing  that  whole  process  and  all  of the  network  that's  transferred  out  of  that, the  difference  between  that  for a  closed  system  like  that  should  be equal  to  zero,  okay? So  yeah,  essentially,  this  is  first  law. All  right.  Okay.  This  is  good. I  want  to  bring  back  my  one. I  promise  a  lot  better  board  management once  my  camera  gets  fixed. All  right.  Okay. Okay,  so  now  let's  consider  the  following. Let's  say  that  we  have  a  state  zero, which  is  here,  and  let's say  this  is  a  state  one,  okay? And  let's  say  that  we  have  a  process  of  going from  state  one  to state  zero,  which  we'll  call  A. And  we'll  consider  two  trips  back,  okay? Let's  say  the  direct  way, and  let's  call  path  C  the  scenic  route,  okay? That  was  a  dead  joke. All  right.  Fine.  Scenic  job. All  right.  So  from a  statement  that  we  have  there, what  we  can  write  then  is  in the  integral  from one  A  to  zero  of dq  minus  dw  plus the  integral  then  of  zero  B  to  one, zero  B  to  one  of  d  minus  dw  is  equal  to  zero. All  right? Now,  we  can  consider  the  same  thing, but  a  return  trip  as, again,  the  scenic  route,  right? So  we  have  one  A  to  zero  dq  minus  dw, plus  the  integral  of  zero  C  to one  of  dq  minus  dw. And  if  we  combine  these  two,  these  two  terms, this  is  going  to  subtract, and  so  this  term  and  this  term  are going  to  be  equivalent. Our  integral  of  zero  to  one  B of  our  dq  minus  dw  is  equal to  zero  C  to  one  of  dq  minus  d.  Yeah. Okay.  Let's  move  that  one  there. Let's  bring  it  back. Yeah.  Okay. So  the  integral  of basically  the  difference  of dQ  and  minus  dw is  essentially  fixed  by the  endpoints,  all  right? Yes,  please.  Go  ahead. Heat.  It's  like  heat  transfer. So  Q  and  thermodynamics  is  heat  transfer. Other  questions?  Clarifications?  Yes,  please. Name  Zach.  No,  this  should  just  be  one. I'm  sorry.  So  one  is  the  start. I  apologize.  Thank  you for  catching  that.  Okay. This  should  be  zero  B,  yes. You  get  up  here and  I  don't  know  what  happened. Suddenly,  like  letters change.  I'm  not  kidding. Okay.  Other  questions?  Okay.  Thank  you. All  right.  All  right. So  the  point  is  that and  I'll  get  into  it  later, but  the  point  of  this  is that  this  dQ  minus  this  dw, all  I  need  to  know  to  have  this  is essentially  the  final  and the  initial  states,  okay? And  the  same  then  for the  other  process,  okay? So  what  we  can  write  then  is  that  E  one, so  let's  call  that  energy  in the  system  minus  E  zero  is  then  the integral  0-1  of  dQ  minus  dw, which  is  then  equal  to  Q  minus  W,  right? So  this  is  basically  the  energy in  the  system  at  state  one. This  is  the  energy  in the  system  at  state  zero. Q  is  the  heat  transferred  into  the  system, and  W  is  the  work  transferred  out,  okay? In  mechanical  engineering  and thermo  here,  that's  the  convention. If  you  see  Q,  and  it  doesn't  say  in  or  out, it  is  positive  when  you  transfer  in, and  W  is  positive  when  it's  transferred  out. And  the  reason  for  that  is  if you  think  about  a  power  plant. You  put  heat  into it  and  you  get  work  out  of  it,  right? That's  the  way  to  remember.  If  you  go to  physics,  they're  weird. Sorry.  And  they  do things  differently,  right?  Okay. All  right,  so  we  can take  the  differential  of  this,  right? So  then  we  can  talk  about  DE  being  equal to  dq  minus  R  dw. And  this  is  what  I  would  say  is a  very  common  way  that  you'll see  the  first  law  written. So  the  change  in  the  energy of  your  system  is  equal  to the  change  is  equal  to  the  amount  of  heat transferred  in  minus  the  amount  of work  transferred  out,  all  right? Okay.  Where  to  also  go  with  this. We  generally  don't  care about  the  absolute  amount  of  energy,  right? If  we  care  about  a  process,  like I  mentioned  before, you  care  about  difference. If  you  went  in  and  you  wanted  to tally  up  all  the  energy  in  something,  right? You'd  have  to  talk  about,  you  know, your  kinetic  energies, your  potential  energies, any  magnetism,  capillarity, and  whatever  that  goes  into  it, it  gets  exhausting,  right? Um,  But  again,  as  an  engineer, you  don't  really  care about  the  absolute  value, but  you  do  care  about  the  difference,  right? So  go  from  something  hot to  cold,  that's  there. That's  something  that's  going  to  be  done. And  so  what  you'll  do  is you'll  talk  about  a  reference  state. So  when  we  get  into properties,  you'll  say,  okay, here  is  some  arbitrarily chosen  reference  state. We  all  agree  on  it, like  we  all  agree  on  the  time for  whatever  reason  in the  UK  that  we  have  GMT  zero. We  accept  that  in  the  same  way in  our  tables  in  our  calculations, there's  going  to  be  some  reference  value, and  we  compute  property  changes  in  and around,  um,  that,  okay? So  again,  there's  no  absolute  value. Well,  there  could  be  an  absolute  value of  what  we  call  here  is  internal  energy, but  again,  we  don't  care. That's  not  questions  that  we  ask  in this  in  this  class,  okay?  Okay. This  is  a  property,  right? Internal  energy  is  a  property. If  I  know  the  temperature  and the  pressure  or the  specific  volume  of  my  system, I  know  the  internal  energy, okay?  It's  a  property. Heat  and  work,  I  cannot  stress  this  enough, are  not  properties,  right?  They're  not. Um.  You  know,  you  transfer  heat  in, you  transfer  work  out,  okay? When  we  think  about  the,  you  know, the  and  where  you  transfer  it in  and  out  are  at  boundaries,  right? So  you  look  at,  you  know,  let's  say,  again, back  to  our  piston  example,  Right? So  if  this  is, let's  say,  the,  you  know, what  I  define  as  the  boundary  of  my  system, you'd  be  transferring  heat in  at  that  boundary. You'd  be  transferring  work also  out  of  that,  okay? What  you'll  see  in  the textbook  to  drive  this  home, the  fact  that  this  is  not  a  property, is  that  this  D,  a  lot  of times  will  be  written  as  like  a  Delta,  okay? And  this  Delta,  what  it  means is  it's  an  inexact  differential. What  the  hell  does  that  mean  for  us? It  means  you  need  to  know  the  process. Like,  you  need  to  know every  single  little  change  there. You  have  to  have  complete  information about  it  in  order  to  integrate. I'll  make  it  clear  later  how  we  do  that, but  that's  why  they'll  write delta  in  the  textbook. Again,  because  internal  energy, this  is  a  property,  and the  properties  only  depend  on the  starting  and  the  end  states. You  have  an  exact  differential for  that,  a  D,  okay? Cool.  Two,  two,  two. So  what  you  should  not  write  let's see  if  we  stick  with  our  example  there, you  should  not  write  W  zero. You  should  not  write  W  one. That  doesn't  make  sense. But  something  like  maybe  w01, that  might  make  sense,  right? Because  that's  a  process  between  two  states. The  same  might  be  said  of  something  like first  quarter  one  there,  okay? Great.  Um,  Yeah. Okay.  So  again,  this  is  just  some  basics. Again,  I'll  try  to  make  this  exciting, and  we'll  connect  it  back  to  I  mean, I  think  this  stuff  super  exciting,  but,  like, we'll  connect  it  back  to  the  rest  later. But  again,  in  every  thermal  problem, the  most  important  thing, the  very  first  thing  you  should do  is  to  draw  a  boundary. You  look  at  a  system,  and your  first  reaction  on  a  quiz  or a  test  is  you draw  a  nice  picture, better  than  what  I've  done  here. I  know  you're  capable,  and  then you  draw  the  boundary  to  it,  right? And  what  we  call  that  here, so  we  draw  that  boundary, the  area  contained  in  it. Term  is  the  control  volume,  all  right? And  again,  the  whole  purpose of  this  course  is  looking  at the  ways  that  we  can  exchange energy  in  and  out  of  the  control  volume. For  this,  we're  looking  at  heat in  and  out,  work  in  and  out. Later  on,  when  we  think  about  data  centers, when  we  think  about  turbines, when  we  think  about  that, we're  also  going  to  be  able  to bring  in  a  fluid,  right? We're  going  to  be  able  to  bring in  mass  in  and  out, and  that's  the  third  way  that  you  can exchange  energy  there,  okay? Great.  What  else  am  I  missing? We're  doing  super  today.  We're  like, amazingly  on time.  You  guys  are  a  great  group. Okay,  so  I've  exhausted  my  notes  on  all  that. So  I  just  have  some  closing  remarks  then, and  then  I  can  release  you  all early  to  go  to  your  homework  one, two,  and  three  before, you  know,  next  lecture. So  this  is  a  quote  from a  very  famous  German Professor  Arnold  Sommerfeld. So  the  first  statement,  you  know, thermo  is  a  funny  subject. The  first  time  you  go  through  it, you  don't  understand  it  at  all. The  second  time  you  go  through  it, you  think  you  get  it  except for  one  or  two  parts. The  third  time  you  go  through  it, you  know  you  don't  understand  it, but  by  that  time,  you're  used  to  it, and  it  doesn't  bother  you  anymore,  okay? So  anyways,  he  was very  famous.  He  was  very  famous. He  himself  didn't  win  any  Nobel  prizes, but  a  bunch  of  his  students,  you  know,  did. Maybe  they  didn't  need  three times  to  take  it. So  this  is  where  you  are  sort  of  today. You're  going  through  it. You  know,  by  the  end  of  this,  hopefully, you  know,  you'll  be  ready  for the  next  part  there. I  think  you  all  today.  Great  turnout. If  you  have  any  questions, I'm  up  here  for  the  next  few  minutes. I'm  looking  forward  to  the  semester.
