At  last  lecture,  there  was a  question  from  Max  about the  CVs  and  the  CPs  and then  notation  between  the  Ds  and  the  Delta. So  I  just  want  to  take through  an  exercise  here. So  the  way  that  we  came  up  with this  is  where  we  defined these  pistons  either  with a  constant  volume  or  a  constant  pressure. We  wrote  the  first  law  in a  differential  form, so  the  DQ  or  DU  is  dQ  minus  dW, so  Little  U  Little  QW  on  a  per  mass  basis. We  said  that  in  this  case  here, since  the  only  kind  of  work  that can  be  transferred  from  this  system, since  we're  not  doing  electrical  work, it  can  only  be  a  boundary. So  that  boundary  work  has  to  be  PDV. And  we  said  that  the  DQ we're  claiming  this  concept  of  heat  capacity. So  this  C  times  the  DT. And  we  put  a  little  V  here, noting  that  it's  a  constant  volume  process. And  then  when  we  re  arrange  this, we  can  divide  by  the  V  as  a  constant. So  this  term  All  right. This  term  goes  away. So  then  we  divide  by  dt,  and  we  have  this. And  the  point  is  that  since  we have  here  the  constant volume  as  an  assumption, the  way  that  we  represent  that  is the  partial  U  partial  T for  constant  V  is  the  definition  of  CV,  k? And  we  did  the  same  thing  for a  constant  pressure  process  here, so  same  thing,  but instead  of  constant  volume, constant  pressure,  DU  is  dQ  minus  DW. We  write  that.  We  can also  say  the  definition  of  enthalpy. So  enthalp  is  u  plus  P  V.  We  can  take the  differential  of the  enthalpy  and  expand  it,  right? That's  going  to  be  D  U  PDV. I  think  it's  chain  role  right,  and  then  VDP. And  since  it's  the  constant  pressure  process, that  one  goes  away. And  so  then  we  can  have  a  definition of  CP  as  being the  partial  of  enthalpy with  respect  to  temperature for  a  constant  p  there, right?  This  is  all  in  the  notes. I'll  slide  this  over,  so  maybe  it's  a  bit visible  to  those  in  the  back. Okay?  All  right. So  we  left  off with  our  problem  with  the  iron. All  right,  so  I  don't  have  it  on  here, so  I'll  just  sketch  it. So  we  had  this  problem. Last  time  that  I  started where  we  had  a  bath of  water.  I  had  a  bath  of  water. Here,  the  tank  is  insulated, so  we  have  an  insulated  tank  of a  large  amount  of  water. Okay.  Water.  All  right. We're  told  that  the  temperature of  the  water  is initially  T  one  water  is initially  25  degrees  C.  We're told  that  the  volume  of the  tank  is  0.5  cubic  meters. And  into  this,  we  drop this  hot  piece  of  iron. So  this  is  then  iron. The  mass  of  it,  the  mass  of  the  iron. I'm  going  to  call  le  I  is  equal  to 50  kilograms and  the  initial  temperature  of  that  iron. So  t1t1  I  is  equal  to  eight  degrees  C. And  what  we  want  to  analyze  from this  is  what  the  final  temperature  is of  the  water  and the  iron  when  they  come  into thermal  equilibrium. All  right.  So  for  this, we  write  our  favorite  formula of  the  conservation  of  energy. So  we're  talking  about  the  change. Yeah.  So,  you  know, we're  going  to  draw  this as  our  control  volume. The  control  volume  is this  entire  tank  here  with  the  iron  in  it. And  the  initial  state  then  is when  we  just  put  the  hot  iron  into  the  water, and  the  final  state  is  when it  all  thermalizes  there. So  the  change  in  the  energy  of  the  system there  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  energy  that  we  transfer  in  minus The  energy  that  we  that  we  transfer  out. So  we're  not  putting,  as  I  said, we've  already  put  the  mass  in  there, so  we're  not  transferring any  mass  in  and  out. The  only  ways  that  we  can  transfer energy  into  the  system  is through  heat  transfer  or  work. So  that  would  be  our  Q  in  heat  in  plus  W  N minus  Q  plus  plus W  is  then  equal  to  the  change  in the  internal  energy  plus  the  change  in, let's  say,  kinetic  energy, plus  the  change  in  potential  energy. So  we  don't  have  any  heat  being transferred  in  and  out  of  the  system, so  those  terms  can  go. The  boundary  is  not  moving. We  don't  see  any  boundary  work, no  electrical  works  being transferred  in.  So  we  don't  have  any  of  that. We  don't  have  any  indication  that  there's big  changes  in  kinetic  energy or  potential  energy  here. So  this  So  this  goes  away. And  so  what  you're  left with  is  that  the  change  in internal  energy  is  equal  to  zero.  All  right. Alright.  So  the  doubt  to  you, is  equal  to  the  state two  that  we  go  to  minus  the  state  one. So  I'm  denoting  the  initial  state with  the  subscript,  one  there. The  second  thing  that  we  recognize  is  that when  this  comes  to  equilibrium, the  temperature  of  the  iron  and the  temperature  of  the  water  are  the  same. So  T  two  iron  is  equal  to  T  two  water, which  we  can  also  just  represent  as a  T  two  there.  Alright? And  there's  a  couple  of  different  ways  we could  we  could  proceed. What  I'm  going  to  do,  though,  is, I'm  just  going  to  again, treat  this  as  a  combined  system, so  we  can  talk  about  the  final  state  U  two, and  we'll  subtract  it then  from  the  initial  stage. So  the  U  two  is  going  to be  the  mass  of  the  iron. The  specific  heat  of  the  iron  and  the  t  two. And  that's  then  going  to  be  plus the  mass  of  the  water plus  times  the  specific  heat of  the  water  times  t  two, and  that's  going  to  be  subtracted from  Our  initial  state, which  is  the  mass  of  the  iron, specific  heat  to  the  iron, T  T  one,  iron, and  that's  going  to  then  be plus  the  mass  of  the  water, specific  heat  to  the  water  temperature one  of  the  water. And  that's  equal  to  zero. As  we  here. So  I'm  given  a  term  for  two  and  also  for  one. There  we  can  rearrange this  and  solve  for  t  one. So  if  we  do  that  or  T  two,  I'm  sorry. So  if  we  do  that  T  two  is  equal to  the  mass  of  the  iron, specific  heat  of  the  iron, T  one  of  the  iron  plus  the  mass  of  the  water, specific  heat  of  the  water  temperature one  of  the  water. And  then  that's  divided  by the  mass  of  the  iron, specific  heat  of  the  iron plus  mass  of  the  water, specific  heat  of  the  water. All  right? In  the  electrostes  from  last  time, I  think  the  last  slide  there, I  show  you  the  table  where  you can  look  up  in  the  textbook, the  values  for  C  of  the  iron and  of  the  water  and  remember, with  the  solids  and  liquids  there. We  don't  have  the  CV  or  the  CP. We  just  have  C.  There's going  to  be  one  specific  heat that's  given  in  the  textbook  there. So  for  the  C,  of  the  iron. That's  equal  to  0.4  I  have  0.45 kilo  jules  per  kilogram  Calvin.  Yes,  please. So  So  we  can  take  this  as  an  example,  right? So  changes  in  internal  energy here  are  equal  to, you  know,  some  constant  times the  change  in  temperature  there,  right? So  I'm  taking  this  formula  here. So  Delta  U  is  U  two  minus  u  one. And  what  I'm  claiming  is  that  the  change, let's  say,  for  example, in  the  you  know, let's  say  now  we  draw  it  is instead  of  the  control  volume being  around  the  rock  we  can  draw. Let's  say  two  control  volumes, one  of  the  rock. I'm  sorry,  one  of  the  iron  and one  of  the  water. So  the  change  let's  say  of the  internal  energy  of the  iron  is  going  to  be the  mass  of  the  iron,  times the  specific  heat  of the  iron  times  the  final  temperature minus  the  initial  temperature,  right? And  then  I  can  do the  same  thing  for  the  water. I  can  do  the  mass  of  the  water, specific  heat  of  the  water, times  the  difference  between the  final  temperature  and the  initial  temperature  of  the  water. And  this  is  all  grounded  in  the  fact  that  we can  relate  changes  in  internal  energy. When  it  comes  to  when it  comes  to  heat  transfer. So  the  DQs  by  saying  that  there's  a  mass. There's  a  temperature  difference, and  there  is  a  constant  there, the  specific  heat  that  relates,  you  know, amounts  of  heat  that  I  transfer  to the  temperature  changes that  I  observe,  right? Yes,  please.  One  more  time. One  more  time. No,  no,  it's  a  case. So  we  have  some  initial temperature  that  we  start  with,  right? And  we  have  a  final  temperature that  we  go  to. And  we  have  heat  being  transferred, right  within  the  system  internally between  the  rock  and  the  surroundings,  right? And  so  the  point  is  that  you  are, you  know,  we  can  draw  it  in  this  case. So  here  what  you  have  is  you have  the  rock  here. And  there  is  some,  let's  say, Q  that's  going  from the  rock  to  the  water,  right? I'm  sorry.  It's  very  dry in  here.  All  right. So  if  we  write if  you  write  the  control  volume, again,  in  this  case,  here  like  that, what  this  is  going  to  look  like  from the  perspective  of  the  iron, All  right,  is  that  Right? So  the  energy  that  can  be exchanged  from  the  control  volume, there  can  be  heat  in,  work  in, heat  out,  work  out, and  that's  going  to  be  equal  to  a  change  in internal  energy  of  the  rock, kinetic  energy  or  potential  energy. So  if  I  draw  it  from  there, there's  no  work  in. There's  no  heat  in.  There's  no  workout. There's  only  heat  out,  right?  So  if Q  is  equal  to  Delta  U, let's  say,  iron.  All  right? And  I  don't  have  changes  in  that.  All  right. And  what  I'm  saying  is  that  when  it  comes to  to  Q  here  for  this  case,  right? We  can  write  this  as  an  M  C, let's  say  of  the  iron, mass  of  iron,  C  of  iron. And  there's  a  final  temperature,  right, minus  some  T  one  iron,  right? So  this  is  when  it  comes  to  the  rock. When  it  comes  to  the  water. So  for  the  water,  it's  a  queue  in,  right? So  I  have  heating  transferred from  the  rock  into  the  water. So  I  have  queue. In.  And  I  don't  have  any  of  the  work  terms. I  don't  have  any  Q  out  because it's  insulated,  right? And  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to my  Delta  U  of  my  water, which  is  an  M  water  C  water  t  two minus  t  one  water. Let  me  think  about  this  for  a  second, just  to  make  sure  I  get  it  right. Yeah,  I  am  I  confident  in  that? I  think  I'm  confident  in  that.  Um Exactly. So  you're  going  to  have,  you  know,  some terms  some  term  like  that. And  again,  this  is  just  another  way  to  do  it. And  so  what  you  could write  then  is  you  could  say Delta  U  of  my  whole  system, so  the  u  two  minus  u  one  is  equal  to the  Delta  u  of  my  iron  plus the  Delta  U  of  my  water. All  right.  And  if  you  follow  it  that  way, you're  going  to  end  up  with  the  same  formula here  and  then  solve  it.  Yes,  please. So  it's  the  final  temperature. What  I'm  saying  is  the  T  two. I  wrote  it  here. There's  a  final  temperature  of  the  iron, a  final  temperature  of  the  water. And  what  I'm  saying  in  this  problem  is they're  both  in  thermal  equilibrium, which  means  they  have  the  same  temperature, which  is  the  T  two. Alright?  Yes,  please. Names  Names,  names. No,  it  is  not.  So  if  you  read  the  textbook, and  you  look  at  it, it  depends  on  temperature, and  this  has  to  do  with the  fact  that  across  temperature, you  access  different  energy storage  mechanisms  within  a  material. However,  for  many  engineering  problems, it  can  be  treated  as  a  constant. Okay.  Alright.  So  you  end  up  with  this. The  thing  that  we  haven't  solved for  here  is  the  mass  though, so  I  didn't  give  you  the  mass  of  the  water. I  only  gave  you  the  volume. If  you  went  to  the  back of  the  textbook  at  this  temperature  here, and  knowing  that  it's liquid  water,  you  could  look  it  up. You  could  also  just  remember that  at  these  conditions, the  density  of  water  is 100  kilograms/meter  cubed, and  the  inverse  of  that  is  going  to  be 0.001  meters  cube  per  kilogram.  All  right. So  if  you  have  that,  so  the  mass  then of  the  I'm  sorry,  I  didn't  write  the  CW. CW  is  4.18  kilo  joules  per  kilogram  Calvin, and  the  mass  of the  water  is  going  to  be  equal to  the  volume  of  the  water, which  we  gave  there  is  0.5  meters  cubed, divided  by  the  specific  volume  of  the  water. This  is  then  0.5  meters cubed  divided  by  0.001  meters cubed  per  kilogram  and  the  mass is  the  water  is  then 500  kilograms  is  the  mass  of  your  water. We  have  mass  of  iron,  CI, the  initial  mass  water sea  water  T  one  of  water. If  you  substitute  all  that  in, you'll  see  that  T  two  is  equal  to 25.6  degrees  Celsius,  right? Max.  CI  temperature. So  what  I  want  to  say to  this  is  you  have  to  think, what  would  a  reasonable  person  do.  Alright? So  in  a  first  go,  what  a  reasonable  person would  do  is  just take  the  temperature  that  you  have. So  if  an  initial  temperature,  you  look  at  it, you  calculate  properties  from that  temperature,  and  you  get  an  answer. And  what  you  do  is  you  checked  a  posteriori, that  means  after  the  fact, did  that  sort  of  make  sense? If  that  was  a  bad  assumption, what  you  would  do  is you  have  this  initial  temperature, I  have  a  final  temperature  in  my  process, so  I  have  a  T  one  in  the  T  two. I  have  a  C  for  the  T  one. I  have  a  C  for  the  T  two, and  now  I  could basically  take  the  average  of  that. That's  what's  recommended  in the  textbook  there. You  also  have  computers, so  you  couldn't  actually know  across  the  entire  process, what  is  the  C,  as  it  varies  too, and  then  you  could  have, you  know,  a  complete  answer. But  you're  an  engineer.  So  start simple  and  then  make it  more  complex  as  you  go. Is  that  okay?  Owen.  Yeah. Yeah.  And  the  relationship, you'll  see  a  lot  of  times  in  fluid  mechanics. We're  talking  about,  like,  you  know, a  little  V  is  equal  to the  inverse  of  density  there, which  we  represent  as  a  row. Okay?  In  the  back  there. Well,  the  first  thing  is  that you  know  it's  liquid  water,  right? So  that's  what  I've  described  to  you here  in  this  problem,  right? It's  25  degrees  C,  and  I  have water  there.  You  are  correct. I  would  have  to  constrain that  more  to  be  able  to  do  it. Yeah.  But  I'm  saying  I  take  a  rock that's  hot  and  I  drop  it  into  liquid  water, and  I  cool  it  there. But  yes,  that's  fair.  And  the  answer would  be  like  atmospheric  pressure, let's  say. Okay. Okay,  so  that's  it,  with  that  part  of  it. So  what  I'm  going  to  do  now  is  I'm going  to  move  into  the  slide. So  I'd  like  to  talk  today  for the  next  30  minutes  about  these  points  here. So  we've  talked a  lot  about  the  conservation  of energy  and  closed  systems. Now  we're  going  to  move  into  open  systems, and  we're  to  talk  about  conservation  of  mass. And,  we're  going  to  break  down  some  of these  points  here  today. Five.  All  right. Yeah.  So  just  like  we  did  with the  conservation  of  energy  here, where  we  have  a  control  volume. And  we  see  the  change  in  the  energy  in that  control  volume  is  equal  to  the  energy that  enters  minus  the  energy  that  exits. It's  the  same  with  mass,  right? So  that's  a  core  principle in  a  fluid  mechanics,  right? For  those  of  you  haven't  taken  it, so  you're  going  to  have  some  amount of  mass  entering  the  control  volume, some  amount  that's  leaving  it, and  then  that's  going  to  be  the  net  change within  the  control  volume,  right? So  that's  pretty  much  identical to  what  I've  represented  and written  written  here.  All  right. So  when  we  define the  control  surfaces  here as  I've  done  until  now, really  for  the  energy,  I've  kind  of  drawn them  along  a  border,  which  is  fine. When  it  comes  to  mass  flows.  Alright? So  maybe  it's  helpful  if  if I  give  an  example of  what  that  would  look  like. So  if  I  go  from  the  closed  system  like  I  had there,  but  now  I  open  it  up. Draw,  let's  say,  you  know,  almost  the same  the  same  kind  of  control  volume. So  I  have  some  you  know,  fluid  coming  in. I  have  some  fluid  exiting  there. How  you  draw  the control  volume  matters,  right? So  here  you  see  what  I'm  describing. I'm  saying,  look,  I  have some  control  surface,  right? Which  is  this  dash  line  that  I  have  here. And  the  relevant  velocity,  you  know, for  that  is  going  to  be  the  one  that's normal  to  that  surface. Okay?  We'll  get  into  a  little  bit, you  know,  why  that  matters, but  you  know,  you're  dealing  then  with the  components  that  are  normal. And  for  the  purposes  of  this,  again, because  we're  out  of  out  of letters  in  our  Latin,  you  know,  alphabet. For  the  purposes  of  this  today, we're  going  to  be  using  W  as  our  velocity, which  is  again,  how  most  of the  thermo  books  were  done  before. I  think  it  means  Vindkt  like  Windy in  in  German,  right? To  have  W  for  that,  right? Because  in  the  book,  I  really  don't  like  it. They  use  Vs  all  the  time, and  the  Vs  don't  look  very  different  between velocity  and  volume  there. Okay? You  know,  and  again,  just  like  what we  had,  All  right. So  the  thing  I  want  to  say  then too  is  then  with  the  velocities, you  know,  there  that  are  coming  in,  right? This  is  basically  carrying  a  mass, or  you  have  a  mass  that's  coming  in. And  normally  represent  that not  as  like  an  amount  of  mass  that  comes  in, but  an  amount  of  mass  that  comes  in in  a  specific  amount of  time,  right?  Like  a  rate. So  we  speak  about  M  dot, which  is  equal  to  d  dt. This  says  units  of  kilograms  per  second. And  we'll  normally  call  that  mass  flow. Mass  flow  rate,  right? And  again,  because  it's  a  flow, this  could  be  carrying  in, you  know,  energy  with  it, like  the  other  two  mechanisms  where  we  had Q  and  W.  So the  transfer  and  the  work  transfer, the  mass,  which  were  path  functions. All  right. Mass  is  going  to  be  the  same,  right? You're  going  to  have  you know,  the  amount  that's,  you  know, coming  in  or  transferred  into the  control  volume  is going  to  depend  on,  you  know, complete  knowledge  at  every  point in  time  as  to  what's  happened, just  like  Q  and  just  just  like  W,  right? Cool. And  we'll  stick  with the  notation  that  we  had  before  for  that. Again,  with  all  the  path  functions, where  we  use  the  little  Delta, you  know,  when  we're dealing  with  the  differentials of  that. And  how  do  you  relate  then  the velocity  to  the  mass  flow  rate? So  it  is  written  there. So  you're  going  to  have  density. As  I  mentioned,  so the  inverse  specific  volume is  is  density. So  your  M  dot,  our  Delta  dot, is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  row, the  density,  the  fluid,  the  velocity  normal, right  to  the  control  surface  here, and  then  times  the  DAC, or  the  AC  is  essentially this  fraction  of  the  area, the  small  window  that it's  going  to  flow  through. There.  And  you  can  check  your  units  on  it, so  the  units  on. This  is  right  kilograms  per  second. This  is  meters  per  second.  This  is  meters. I'm  sorry,  isn't  that  kilograms  per  second. Kilograms  for  meter  cubed. Sorry,  it's  been  a  long  day. Kilograms  of  meter  cubed. So  this  cancels  with  this. And  then  that  has  units of  kilograms  per  second, which  is  the  mass  flow  rate  there.  Alright. Another  point  about  this  with fluid  mechanics  is  that  it  is  extremely difficult  to  have  knowledge  about every  single  point,  you  know,  along  here. So  as  a  general  rule, and  indeed,  it  will  vary. A  lot  of  times  in  pipes  and  stuff. You  know, the  velocity  profiles  might  look  like  this, very  high  velocities  in  the  center. No  velocity  at  the  wall. And  so  what  you're  going  to  deal with  then  there  is  some  kind  of an  average  value  of  the  of  the  velocity, which  is  then  essentially  going  to  give you  what  you  care  about,  which  is  then, like  the  average  mass  flow rate  that's  coming  in  or the  total  mass  flow  rate  that's coming  in  into  the  system. Right?  You  don't  need  detailed  knowledge about  the  velocity  at  every  point. You  just  need  to  know  how  much  mass  is  then entering  into  the  control  volume. Right?  Cool. Yeah.  So  that  sort  of  summarizes that  there  mathematically,  right? So  you  have  the  detailed  knowledge  of WN  at  every  position  there, you  do  this  integration,  and  then  you're going  to  end  up  with  the  average  velocity. And  then  you  can  convert with  this  formula  that we  had  here  between saying  that  m  dot  is  equal  to  R, the  average  velocity  and  times the  cross  sectional  area of  what's  entering,  right? Yeah.  And  then  it's  the  same  thing for  the  volumetric  flow  rate. Let  me  see  here.  Can  I  erase right?  You  can  go  from  being an  M  dot  to  a  V  dot. So  where  V  dot  has the  dimensions  of  meters  cubed  per  second. And  the  way  that  you  do  this  is  by multiplying  multiplying  by  row,  right? So  there's  a  meter  per  second, kilograms  per  meter  cubed, so  you  can  work  back  and  forth interchangeably  between  them,  right? Yes,  p.  So  what's  the  difference? 100  I guess Yeah  Yeah. I  mean,  the  thing  is,  like,  so  imagine  you have  this  as  your  pipe  and  you draw  your  control  surface  because you're  feeling  a  bit wild  you  know,  like  this. Right? The  truth  is  that  in  a  pipe  flow  like  this, all  the  velocity  components  are  going  to  be basically  parallel  to  that  interface. But  what  I'm  telling  you  here  is, you  know,  to  do  this,  right, you're  going  to  have  the  right the  normal  component  of  that. So  you're  essentially  making  extra  work  for yourself  because  you're  going  to  have a  longer  area  here, but  slightly  lower  values of  the  velocity  component  that's  normal. And  in  the  end, you'll  get  the  same  value,  right? You  get  the  same  average  value  of the  normal  component  of  In  the  end, you'll  get  the  same  M  dot  through  the  pipe, but  it's  unnecessary  work, 'cause  you  got  to  basically  take projections  of  the  velocity  there. So  I'm  saying  through  this,  and what  we  made  clear  when  you  do  exercises  is, you  know,  how  you  draw,  draw  things conveniently  to  make  it so  you  don't  have  extra  work. I  mean,  yeah  if everything's  flown  in  a  direction, draw  you  know  the  damn  thing  like  that, right? Next  question. I'm  not  going  to  touch  that  with a  ten  foot  pole  in  laminar. Okay.  We  can  talk  after  class.  Next  question. Normal. So  I  can  take  any  vector. If  I  have  any  vector  in  a  two  D  or three  D  space,  I  have  a  vector  there. There's  three  components then  that  describe  it. I  could  define  my  coordinate system  however  I  want,  right? Yeah.  Yes,  please. 'cause  it's  the  same  reason  for work  and  for  heat. Right?  I  don't  have  like  an  M  dot  at  the  end minus  an  M  dot  at  the  beginning,  right? I  need  to  know  how  much has  come  in  at  right  every  point  in  time into  my  control  volume  to understand  the  changes  there. Okay. These  are  great  questions.  I'm  gonna keep  moving  though,  right? Yeah,  so  that  was  Yeah,  exactly. So  then  the  way we  can  make  this  really  similar  to You  know,  contrasting  this  with our  other  case,  where  we're  saying,  Okay, DE  of  my  system,  you  know, DT  is  equal  to the  rate  that  I'm  transferring  energy  in, minus  the  rate,  that I'm  transferring  energy  out. It's  the  same  thing  for  the  mass,  right? So  the  DM  system  or control  volume  there  you  know, DT  is  equal  to  the  m.in  minus  the  t,  right? So  you  have  three  conservation  principles. Conservation  of  energy,  conservation  of  mass. Does  anyone  know  what  the  third  one  is? Brave  soul.  Yes.  Momentum.  All  right. Conservation  of  momentum. Alright.  So  those  are  your  33  pillars of  engineering,  right? Yeah,  again,  this  is  all  sort  of, you  know,  again,  on  the  Mathis  side, so  we  can  take  this  part  here, the  statement  here,  and  then relate  it  to  what  I  said  before. So  then  the  rate  of the  change  of  the  mass  and the  control  volume  is  nothing  but,  you  know, the  integral  of  the  change,  right? In  the  volume  of  your  control  volume, tends  the  density  essentially the  change  in  the  mass. There.  This  was,  I  think, maybe  for  the  question  that  was  over  here. What  happens  when  you  start to  define  you  know, weird  or  inconvenient  control  surfaces. If  you  define  it  with  the  angle. Again,  this  is  the  real  velocity with  this  being  the  control  surface, it's  a  larger  control  surface, but  the  normal  velocity  component  of the  overall  velocity  in  the  flow  is  going  to be  less  than  the  magnitude. It  all  works  out  in  the  end  for  the  M  dot. But  again,  if  you  know all  the  flows  in  this  direction, you  draw  that  surface  of the  control  volume  perpendicular  to  the  flow. All  right. S. All  right. So  yeah,  that  part  of, like,  bringing,  you  know, one  thing  in  and  one  thing  out, I  mean,  that's  fine. In  some  systems, you  know,  engineering  systems, you're  going  to  have  like two  streams  that  come  in. That's  one  part,  so things  can  get  more  complex. The  second  thing  is  as  a  general,  you  know, as  a  general  rule  in engineer  and  engineering  processes. A  lot  of  them  operate under  steady  conditions,  right? So  something's  coming  in is  equal  to  what's  coming  out. So  for  a  lot  of  things,  right, you're  going  to  be  dealing  with  a  D DT  that's  equal  to  zero,  right? So  for  both  cases,  as we  had  done  before,  right, in  that  case,  you're  going  to  have  an  e.in is  equal  to  e  dot  out. And  for  the  mass flow  rate  that's  going  to  be  an m.in  is  equal  to  an  M  dot  out. And  in  the  textbook,  a  lot  of  times,  well, you're  just  going  to  be  given  a  something like  M  dot. So  you're  going  to  say there's  a  steady  process. Here's  the  mass  flow  rate, and  you're  given  an  M  dot  And  you're given  an  M  dot  with  it  with it  there.  All  right. And  so,  you  know, so  you  have  several  streams  coming  in. As  I  note  here  on  the  board, though,  this  condition, where  we  have  the  steady operating  conditions, and  a  single  inlet  and a  single  outlet  is still  pretty  useful,  though. So  if  you  think  about  how  most  of the  electricity  is  still produced  in  the  United  States, and  involves  a  turbine,  right? So  turbine  is  like  you know,  there's  one  inlet, there's  one  outlet,  and  like,  a  ton  of  fans, right,  that  are  in  the  way. With  that,  you  think  about  nozzles, you  know,  diffusers,  you  know,  hair  dryers. And  things  along  that  line, there's  a  lot  of  utility to  analyzing  these  systems. Yeah,  So  I  said  before, you  have  conservation  of energy,  mass,  and  momentum, we  do  not  have  conservation  of  volume,  right? So,  you  know,  don't  write  it  on  the  exam. I'm  not  going  to  talk  about  it  further, but  those  are  the  three  that  work. Conservation  of  volume  is  not, um  Yeah.  No  relevant. Again,  here's  sort  of  what a  compressor,  you  know, system  looks  like,  right?  Okay. Do  I  have  enough  time  for  this?  I  think  I  do. So  I  told  you  before  that  we  defined this  concept  of  enthalpy,  right? And  I  said,  bear  with  me. I'm  going  to  give  you  a  meaning, an  actual  meaning  for  it. And  from  this  analysis  here,  it  is  my  goal. Why  am  I  slides?  This  is  like Okay,  that's  better. So  I  said,  bear  with  me  there, and  I'm  going  to  give  you  from  a  real  system, how  how  ent  P  appears, right? I'm  not  going  to  go  to  the  board  with  this. I'm  going  to  take  you  through  some  drawings. These  are  slides  that  were  shared  with me  from  my  mentor,  some  years  ago. A  lot  of  stuff  I  got  rid  of  him, but  some  stuff  he  did  so  good, I  couldn't  improve  on  it. A  right?  I  was  in  German, but  okay,  Engena means,  you  know,  this  is  inlet. Aus  ganga  is  outlet. Here,  we  have  the  control  volume,  right? So  this  is  the  control  volume  there. We  could  have  multiple  streams coming  in,  so  n  dot. This  could  be  one  E, literally  means  for  the  Egg,  the  inlet. So  would  be  one  all  the  way  to  n.  Note the  index  for  this.  And  then  with  the  exit. You  can  have  mass  streams that  are  basically  leaving this  control  volume  with these  mass  flow  rates  there. So  again,  mass  flowd  is  the  M  dot. The  change  in  the  mass  of the  control  volume  as  a  function  of  time, would  be  equal  to  the  summation of  all  the  M  dots  coming  in, minus,  the  summation  of  all  the  dots  exiting. And  if  you're  operating under  steady  conditions, what  leaves  is  equal  to  what  comes  in,  right? Cool. Take  it  a  step  further.  So  we don't  just  have  to  have  now  with  the  mass. We  can  analyze  the  energy,  right? So  for  this  control  volume, we  can  still  have work  that's  transferred  in  and  out, and  we  can  still  have  heat  that's transferred  in  and  out of  this  control  volume. So  first  thing  I  want  to  note. And  the  second  thing  is  that  the  the  mass that's  being  transferred  in  through these  different  paths  can  also  carry  energy. There  can  be energy  content  associated  with  it. What's  an  example,  kinetic  energy,  right? Internal  energy,  you  know,  I  could  be  hot. You  know,  potential  energy  with  it. So  those  are the  different  possibilities  that  we  can have  for  energy  being transferred  in  from  flow, in  addition  to  the  normal  work  and heat  transfer  that  we  know,  right? This  representation  that  I'm doing  here  is  now  with  the  dot  notation. Right?  I'm  saying  there's  some  energy in  the  control  volume,  right? That's  equal  to  work  in,  work out,  heat  in,  heat  out, some  amount  of  mass  that's  transferred in  with  that  energy  stream. And  this  is  how  we'll  write, you  know,  the  conservation  of  energy. So  the  left  hand  side  there  is like  the  Delta  E of  the  system  from some  future  time  minus  the  current  time. And,  you  know,  the  rest  is  nothing  but the  e  dot  s  and  the  or  the  E  s  and  the  E  out. A  right?  We  write  with  little  E. So  what's  little  E, just  like  all  the  other  little  variables that  we  have,  the  Us, the  Hs,  and  so  on, is  that  divided  by  the  amount  of  mass. So  it's  the  E  divided  by,  you  know, the  amount  of  mass  that's  transferred  in, and  that's  equal  to  little  U  internal  energy, one  half,  the  velocity squared  plus  the  acceleration  due to  gravity  times  times  the  height,  right? So  that  could  be  the  height of  the  fluid  that's entering  the  system.  Okay. Again,  drawing  on your  calc,  you  know,  one  there. These  You  know,  we  could divide  basically  by  the  Delta  T. So  that  would  be  our  formula  where  we substitute  the  literally  in. You  could  divide  by  the  Delta  Ts. Remember  these  limits,  and  you  can  write this  all  in  rate  form,  right? So  the  rate  of  change  of  the  energy  in my  control  volume  is the  net  he  transferred  in, the  net  work  transferred  out. The  sum  of  the  mass  coming  in multiplied  by  the  internal  energy, velocity  squared  potential  energy, and  then  the  amount  that's  leaving  it,  right? This  is  a  key  moment,  right, because  with  work  here, we  have  two  types  of  work  here,  right? So  before  with  the  closed  system, really  the  work  we  were  dealing with  was  either  boundary  work, so  we  were  moving  something,  or  we  had kind  of  an  electrical  work  that was  transferred  in  into  the  system. But  with  open  systems here  where  you  can have  mass  moving  in  and  out, there's  also  the  work  required to  displace  a  fluid,  right? And  that  is  the  essence  of  enthalpy,  alright? But  actually,  you  don't  give  a  shit about  that.  That's  actually  bad  for  you. If  I  have  to  do  work  there, that's  like  unnecessary,  that's  like, you  know, the  biggest  problem  for  any  engineer. You  got  to  do  something that  you  don't  want  to  do,  right? But  this  is  what  you  want. What  you  normally  want or  what's  desirable  is like  shaft  work,  right? That's  rotating  a  shaft, moving  a  piston,  you  know, generating  electricity  there. So  how  do  we  decouple  that? I'll  take  you  through  the  example. So  imagine  this  is  our  system, this  poorly  drawn,  I  don't  know, blat  whatever  this  is,  right? So  it  has  one  inlet  and  one  outlet. And  imagine  at  the  inlet,  we  have  a  density. And  again,  with  the little  being  the  inlet  here. So  I  have  a  density  at the  inlet  of  pressure  at  the  inlet, and  let's  say  that we  have  an  imaginary  piston  here. Is  imaginary  piston  here that  has  a  cross  sectional  area  AE. All  right.  And  let's say  we  displaced  that  piston by  a  distance  Delta  S. That's  a  volume  displacement,  right? The  volume  displacement  is Delta  V  A,  Delta  S  there. And  that's  a  P  DV  work,  right? So  that's  a  work. A  pressure  times  that  displaced  volume. It's  the  pressure,  cross sectional  area  of  the  piston, and  the  amount  of  distance that  the  pistons  displaced. Can  divide  that  by  Delta  T, and  that  would  be the  pressure  cross  sectional  area, and  velocity,  velocity  that you  displace  the  piston  there, right?  Same  thing  at  the  exit. So  you  have  here  the  density, the  pressure  at  the  exit  with  the little  a  indicating  the  exit, the  imaginary  piston,  and the  cross  sectional  area  there. And  then  you  let  that expand  some  amount,  right? And  just  like  we  had  before, that  could  be  a  pressure  times an  area  times  a  distance, or  if  it's  in  rate  form, pressure  times  an  area  times  the  velocity. All  right.  So  the  total  work. All  right.  So  in  this  imaginary  scenario  is then  in  the  rate  format is  the  rate  of  the  shaft  work, or  let's  say,  shaft  power, that  displacement  work  that  I  showed  at the  exit  minus  the  displacement  work at  the  entrance  there. And  again,  we  can  write  that as  we  did  before  the  pressure, the  cross  sectional  area  of  that  piston, and  the  velocity  minus the  pressure  at  the  inlet  area  at  the  inlet, and  the  velocity  at  the  inlet. And  we  can  also  express  it  in  this  way with  the  mass  with  the  mass  floured. So  instead  of  being  on  a  velocity  basis, this  could  be  a  mass  fluor  rate  basis. So  pressure,  mass  flor rate  specific  volume  there, and  it  can  be  generalized  then  to  be multiple  streams  that  are coming  in.  Are  you  with  me? Yes,  you're  with  me.  Okay. So  this  is  where  it  gets  a  little  deep, but  you  got  to  dig  in  deep to  get  to  where  the  entropy  is. Alright?  So,  hang  on. Hang  on  to  the  ride,  right? So,  we  write  that  first  law. So  the  conservation  of energy  principle  for  the  control volume  in  the  rate  format. Alright?  Remember,  the  Little  E was  the  Internal  Energy  kinetic energy  potential  energy. And  we  had  this  then  with the  shaft  work  for  the  total  work, the  shaft  work  plus  the  displacement, right,  the  displacement  work necessary  to  move  the  fluid. So  you  substitute  all  of  this  in  together, and  you  get  this  formula. And  what's  beautiful  is  that  you  have  a  U, you  have  a  P,  and  you  have  a V.  And  that's  entop. And  you  also  have  entop  for  the, you  know,  us  gang,  the  exit. Alright?  And  what's  even  more amazing  is  the  work  term  is  only  shaft  work. Alright? Alright?  I  want  you  to  contrast that  with  the  case where  we  didn't  extract  the  flow  work. So  namely  that  here  you  just  have internal  energy,  here  you  have  overall  work. Alright? So  we  can  analyze  a  turbine  now,  right? So  we  take  a  turbine,  right? And  we  say,  k,  steady  state, no  potential  energy  change, no  kinetic  energy  change, no  heat  transfer  within my  control  volume  of  of  the  turbine. So  steady  means  the  mass that  comes  in  is  equal to  the  mass  that  exits. All  this  stuff  becomes  zeros, and  the  power  from  the  shaft  is  nothing  but the  mass  flow  rate  times the  entop  at  the  inlet minus  the  entop  at  the  exit. O.  That's  it. However,  if  you  went, and  you  did  maybe,  you  know,  like, what  you  think  you would  do  and  you  say,  Well, I'm  going  to  calculate  it  with  this  way with  the  internal  energy, you  are  going  to  get  a  power  from  that  shaft. Which  is  wrong.  And  if  you're working  for  GE,  you  will  be  out  of  a  job. And  then  I  will  have  a  reputation. You  know,  I  have  a  reputation  to  uphold. And  so  then,  you  know, they're  going  to  complain  to  me, you  know,  about  that. So  don't  go  doing  that,  right? And  that's the  beautiful  thing  with  these  systems. So  when  you  work  then  with  the  enthalpies, you  don't  got  to  take  care of  the  displacement  work, and  you  can  get things  like  as  simple  as  that,  right? It's  very  complicated  thing. I  got  to  stay  upstream. I  got  to  stay  downstream  from  the  system. You  know, the  difference  between  this,  you  know, trivial  property  of  enthalpy, which  is  in  the  table  and  all of  that,  the  mass  floor, which  I,  you  know,  enter,  and and  I  get  the  power,  ok? So  that's  a  more.  I  would  describe that  as  a  much  more  like, natural  way  to  present entropy  because  it  has  meaning. The  book,  on  the  other  hand, which  is  a  fine  book,  just tells  you  this  U  plus  PV. It's  also  what  I  was  told  as a  student,  and  I  had  no  idea. I  said,  it's  entropy. It's  energy.  You  know,  use  it. But  hopefully  through  this  example, that's  a  bit  more  meaningful,  right? So  with  that,  we talked  about  conservation  of  mass. The  first  law,  we've  applied to  this  control  volume,  which  is  open. We  noted  that  when  fluids  come  in, they  can  carry  energy  with  them,  internal, flow  work  kinetic,  and  we related  the  combination  of internal  energy  with  flow  work to  the  property  of  hopine. So  at  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. And  if  you  have  any  questions, I'm  up  here.  Thank  you,  everyone.
