All  right,  I  got  210. So  today,  we're  going  to get  into  entropy  analysis,  right? So  till  now  we've  done  entropy, and  now  today  we're  going  to  use it  for  analysis,  right. We're  starting  to  check  off  a  bunch  of these  major  learning  objectives. Yeah,  so  today,  you'll  be able  to  analyze  a  compressor. So  we'll  talk  about  a  compressor  and  ways to  make  it  more effective  involving  inter  cooling. And  then  we'll  start  with a  general  entropy  balance  and apply  this  to  a  heat  exchanger. Okay,  so  before  that, to  understand  if  you  understand this  property,  okay? So,  you're  all  here. So  yes,  you're  the  few  in  the  product. So  in  this  problem,  what  you're given  is  a  reversible  process. So  let's  say  a  steady  flow  reversible  process that's  going  from  states  one  to  two  to  three. You  have  a  plot  here  of temperature  in  degrees  Celsius versus  specific  entropy on  the  horizontal  axis. And  the  question  is,  in  going  1-2  to  three, what  is  the  total  heat  transfer for  this  reversible  process? Okay?  2  minutes. We  take  a  quick  check  on  you, and  then  if  you  pass, I  will  proceed,  and  then  if  not,  we  will  see. Any  questions? Great.  It's  a  good  intimate  crowd  today. Thank  you.  I'll  circulate. Let's  see  what  their  correctness. I  never  even  get  to  this  part  of  it. Yeah,  there  you  go.  Okay.  Now,  suddenly,  44%. Awesome.  I'm  happy.  I  can  go  on. Say  it  again.  Sorry. Okay. Okay.  So  before  I  get into  the  whole  entropy  analysis  and  that, I  just  want  to  take a  step  back  and  then  remind ourselves  of what  we've  been  analyzing,  right? So,  essentially,  we've had  two  types  of  systems, one  which  we  called  as  a  closed  system, right,  piston  cylinders.  No  mass  in  or  out. The  only  way  we  can  exchange  energy is  through  heater  work,  okay? Good.  We  had  a  second  system where  we  could  where  it  was  open,  right? We  call  these  control  volumes,  okay? You  know,  the  book calls  these  control  volumes. I  would  call  it  kind  of  an  you  know, it's  an  open  system. You  can  bring  heat  and  work  in, but  you  can  also  bring  in  mass,  right? So  in  bringing  mass  in, mass  can  also  bring  energy  into  it,  okay? So  that's  really  the  two  differences  with  it. When  we  analyze  this  one, we  tended  to  talk  about,  like, a  delta  U  is  equal  to  something,  right? And  here,  we  talked  about, like,  rate  notation,  right? So  we'd  say,  like,  the  rate  of change  of  work  in,  you  know, w.in,  W  dot  out  there,  okay? We  speak  about  the  work,  right, the  type  of  work,  you  know, work  transfer  useful  work that  can  be  transferred  out  of  the  system. In  the  case  of  a  piston,  right, that  was  PDV,  right? So  we  have  pressure,  right? We'll  be  integrating  PDV, and  that  would  get  us  to  some  useful  work. In  the  case  of  the  open  system, so  things  like  a  turbine  or,  like, the  pinwheel  example,  right  there, it's  VDP,  okay,  right? Here,  the  volume  changes, and  here  it  does  not,  okay? And  the  way  that  this  one produces  then  work  is  because  you have  big  pressure  differences  that are  across  those  devices,  right? So  PDV  and  VDP  there  Okay. Great.  What  I'd  like  to  do  now  is  then  this, remember  I  said  at the  beginning,  we're  going  to, you  know,  see  about  ways  that  we  can  design compressor  systems  to  be  more  efficient. And  I'm  going  to  show  you  this  example  here. So  in  this  example,  you're  doing two  stages  of  compression. And  in  between  the  two  stages, you  do  what's  called  intercooling,  okay? You  basically  cool  it,  right? What's  the  logic  behind  doing  this? If  I  take  a  gas  and  I  compress  it  there, even  if  I  do  it  isotropically, it's  going  to  get  very  hot,  okay? You're  going  to  get  it's going  to  get  pretty  hot. And  then  if  I  go  again  and  I  try to  compress  now  that  very  hot  gas, you  can  imagine  that  maybe that  might  be  more  difficult  to  do,  okay? So  you  put  all  that  work  in, you  put  a  lot  of  energy  in,  okay? You  get  it  to  a  high  pressure. You  take  heat  out  without basically  changing  the  pressure, and  then  you  go  on  and  compress. And  the  purpose  of  this  example  is to  illustrate  that  by doing  this  cooling  stage, actually  you  can  reduce  the  amount  of, let's  say,  electricity  you would  need  to  run  this,  right? And  this  is  used,  right? This  is  a  system  that's  actually that's  actually  used,  right? What  I'm  showing  you  on  the  right  is essentially  the  solution  to  what  we  have. So  where  is  this  going  right before  I  get  deeply  into  it? The  blue  line.  So  we  start  here, right?  So  this  is  air. We're  starting  off  at 100  PA  in  27  degrees  Celsius,  right? So  it's  like,  you know,  room  temperature  conditions. In  the  blue  stage,  right? And  the  dashed  black  line  that  I have  here  is  the  isobar. So  this  is  the  line  of  constant  pressure on  this  TS  diagram. If  I  just  did  a  single  stage of  compression,  all  right? I  could  do  that, so  I  could  go  from  this  state up  to the  higher  pressure  that's  totally  valid. Or  we  could  do  what  I'm  showing  here  where  I go  up  to  some  you  know, I  compress  up  to  some  pressure,  okay? I  cool  it,  and then  I  basically  do  the  same  thing. I  basically  compress  again  and  I  get onto  the  same  cobar,  right? What  you  can  anticipate  from this  heat  transfer  process is  what  changes  from  here  to  here? What  do  you  see? Like  what's the  first  thing  that's  different  for you  on  that  plot  from the  right  to  the  left  there? Okay.  Every  value  is  a  lower. It's  entropy  lower,  right? And  so  what  does  it  mean if  I  go  from  here  to  here? So  if  I  have  an  entropy  value  that's  here, and  then  I  go  to  it  here, what  does  that  mean? Or  let  me  say  it  another  way. I  told  you  before  about  a  relationship between  entropy  and  heat,  okay? So  am  I  putting  heat into  this  or  am  I  taking  heat  out  of  it, if  I'm  decreasing  entropy. You're  taking  heat  out,  okay? So  that's  the  key  thing.  Now  I'm going  to  give  you  math,  right? But  just  remember  this  is  where we're  at.  All  right. Do  do  do  do. Okay.  All  right, so  our  substance  here,  right? So  the  substance we're  working  with  in  this  case, we  have  air  here. The  mass  flow  rate  that  we're told  in  this  problem  is what  I'm  telling  you  is  in  the  problem, the  MDOT  here  is equal  to  0.15  kilograms/second. We  have  our  initial  state. So  if  we  talk  about  state  one,  All  right. State  one,  we  have  a  P  one, which  is  100  PA. We  have  a  T  one,  which  is  then equal  to  27  degrees  Celsius. And  what  it  means  is  that  if  we  use  Pi  CLR, I'd  be  able  to  know  enthalpy one  and  entropy  one  from  this,  right? So  I  have  complete  information  by having  this  there. We're  going  to  assume. So  let's  make  some  assumptions. So  some  assumptions  we're  going  to  make. Assumptions.  All  right. We're  going  to  assume  that  this  is  right, so  this  is  a  steady  flow. Device,  the  compressors are  reversible  plus  adiabatic, which  means  Isotropic,  okay? Right?  So  this  implies that  they're  isentropic. Neglect,  right? We  neglect  Delta  KE, you  know,  and  Delta  PE. Cool.  For  State  two, so  if  we  analyze  into  State  two  for  this,  we, um  We  are  told that  the  pressure  at  state  two, let  me  see  how  I'm  looking  here. This  is  better.  The  pressure  at state  two  is  equal  to some  ratio  times  the  pressure  at  state  one. And  this  ratio  R  here, we're  told  is  2.5,  okay? Later  on,  this  is  not  going  to  be  uncommon. We're  going  to,  like,  a  lot  of the  problems  are  not  going  to  tell you  what  pressure  two  is. They're  going  to  say  things  like  ratio, compression  ratio,  and  later  here. So  here  we  just  have  a  ratio  of R  of  2.5,  right? Um  Because  these  operate  isotropically, what  we  can  say  is  that S  two  specific  entropy S  two  is  equal  to  S  one,  right? And  from  this,  then  we  know  H two  and  we  know  and  we  know  S  two. All  right.  And  State  three,  State  three. What  do  we  know  about  State  three? State  three,  we  know  let me  back  up  a  second  here  really  quick. So  we  know  H  two, we  know  S  two,  and, of  course,  from  this,  we  know  P  two. All  right.  All  right. Um, Right? This  is  a  heat  exchanger. So  what  you're  doing  here  is basically  a  heat  exchanger. And  in  this  class,  when  we deal  with  heat  exchanger  devices, we  assume  we  don't  have pressure  drops  across  them. So  what  it  means  is  that  P  three is  equal  to  P  two, and  we  know  T  three,  right? T  three  is  given  us  27  degrees  Celsius. So  it  means  now  we  know  enthal  P  three, and  we  know  entra  P  three  there. For  state  four,  Okay, we're  told  that  P  four  is  equal  to that  same  ratio  times  P  three. So  we  know  that.  And  because this  is  a  reversible  and  adiabatic, we're  going  to  say  that  S four  is  equal  to  little  S  three, and  it  means  that  we'll  know  H  three. And  if  we  wanted,  we  could compute  or  I'm  sorry, H  four  and  T  four, let's  say,  if  we  wanted  to  know  that,  right? But  we  have  complete  information then  it's  state  four. Mm  hmm,  hmm.  Okay. So  we've  oriented  ourselves. Now  what  we  can  get  into  is  is  the  analysis. So  again,  here  we  have  let's  draw  this. So  I  have  here,  right?  I  have  an  inlet. I  have  here,  let's  say  this  is the  heat  exchanger  like this  into  a  second  stage  of  compression. Okay.  Here.  And  then  this  is  out,  right? I  have  aw.in  for  that. This  is  our  state  one, our  state  two,  our  state three,  and  our  state  four. You  can  draw  some  control  volumes,  right? I  would  say  this  is  the  control  volume of  compressor  one. We  can  do  a  control  volume of  the  heat  exchanger, and  then  we  can  do  a  control  volume of  the  second  compressor.  All  right. So  let's  call  this  maybe  CV  one, CV  two  and  CV  three  there,  all  right? Okay,  so  let's  say  the w.in  then  of  control  volume one  is  equal  to,  all  right? That's  the  M  dot,  right? This  is  basically  M  dot  times  the  enthalpy  at state  two  minus  the enthalpy  at  state  one,  all  right? I'm  not  going  to  go  through  and, like,  simplify,  right. You  know, this  is  what  I  know  from  the  problem. We  have  a  Q  dot. Out  that's  happening  2-3. So  then  we  have  a  Q  dot out  for  control  volume  two, and  that's  again  equal  to  the  M  dot. And  here,  right,  H  two  is  going  to  have a  higher  enthalpy  than  H  three, so  this  is  going  to  be  H  two  minus  H three  for  the  out  term. And  then  for  the  w.in, so  w.in  for  control  volume,  let's  say  three. This  is  going  to  be  dot  times  H  three, because  it's  a  higher  enthalpy minus  H,  nope,  that's  wrong. H4h4  minus  H  three  there. All  right.  And  so  the  total, then  the  total  work  then. So  the  question  that  we  were  asked  is, assuming  the  compression process  to  be  isotropic, determine  the  power  input to  the  compressor  for the  mass  flow  rate  that  we  gave. And  then  we'll  do  the  same  analysis  then for  the  case  when  we  don't when  we  have  just basically  a  single  compressor going  from  state  one  to  state  four,  right? So  for  this  one,  though, w.in,  is  going  to be  equal  to  w.in  for  control  volume  one. +w.in  for  control  volume  three,  okay? And  the  value  that  I  have, so  again,  how  do  we  compute  this,  right? We  determine  H  one,  H  two, H  three  and  H  four. The  M  dot  was  given  as  0.15  kilograms/second. So  if  you  substitute  in  those  values, I  have  aw.in  kilowatts  of 27.1  of  W  dot  N,  right? Okay.  Now,  we  can analyze  this  as  a  as  a  single  stage  two. So  if  we  do  a  single  stage,  right? So  what  we're  doing  here  is,  let's  see. This  is  my  compressor  here, here's  my  inlet,  here's  my  outlet. W.in.  He's  state  one. And  we  can  call  this  one  as, like,  two  prime,  okay? T  prime.  All  right. Do  to  do.  We  know  state  one,  right? So  state  one  was  again  given  to  us. So  we  know  this  already. So  state  one, and  from  this  we  know  H one  and  we  know  S  one. That  doesn't  change  in  the  system. For  state  two  prime, state  let's  say  two  prime  here. What's  the  pressure  relative to  what  we  had  in  the  first  problem. Say  it  again.  That's  right. Exactly.  So  it's  out  there. It's  on  this. So  we  can  write  the  625  PA or  if  I  want  to  make  it  relative to  what  I  had  for  the  other  one, that  would  be  at  at  state  four,  right? From  state  four  of  what  we had  before,  but  yes,  here, 625  PA.  All  right. And  what  else  do  we  assume here?  You're  on  a  roll. S  two  prime.  You're  a  numerical  guy. I  like  that.  Yeah,  sure. That's  the  right  one,  or  we  would say  it's  one  here,  right? So  it's  one  on  this. And  from  here,  then  you  would  know your  enthalpy  two  prime,  right? And  then  if  you  go  in,  then  w.in for  this  system  is going  to  be  equal  to the  same  dot  that  we  had  before, and  it's  going  to  be  then  H  two prime  minus  H  one. And  if  you  substitute  numbers  in  there, I  get  331.1  kilowatts for  a  single  stage  without  intercooling, okay? This  is  a  bigger  number  than  this,  okay? It's  easy  to  cool  something. Sometimes  cooling  is  for  free,  all  right? And  so  this  may  make  sense then  in  a  system  to  go  into a  single  stage  of  compression, cool  the  cast  off,  send it  back  into  another  compressor. And  what  you'll  see is  the  work  required  there  is less  than  the  case  of  a  single  stage. Even  if  this  is  isotropic  as  a  single  stage, it's  still  more  work  to  do the  single  stage  compression  here  than  to  do this,  cool  this,  okay? Does  that  make  sense?  Are  there questions  about  this  analysis?  Yes,  please. What's  the  difference  between  P two  and  P  two  prime. So  P  two  prime  here. So  P  two  is  like  in  this  problem,  right? This  is  like  halfway  to the  final  pressure  of  the 625  we  want  to  get  to,  right? So  P  two  here  is  like an  intermediate  pressure  on the  way  to  P  four  in  this  system. P  two  primed  here is  like  I  do  this  in  one  shot,  right? I  start  off  at  atmospheric  pressure, and  I  compress  all  the  way to  P  two  prime  here. And  where  we  want  to  go  is  625  PA. So  here,  it's  like  I  go  from here  to  here  in  one  go. And  so  the  P  two  prime  relative  to the  first  problem  is  it's equal  to  P  four,  okay? Other  questions?  Yes.  Louder. Sounds  like  a  good  homework  problem. So  if  we  reverse  it, if  we  reverse  it, actually,  it  sounds  like  a  good  quiz  problem. If  we  reverse  it,  will  it  be  better,  okay? So  I  think  your  problem  statement is  if  I  were to  so  I  go with  something  that's  at  very  high  pressure. So  let's  say  to  keep  it  analogous. So  I  go  with  high  pressure  through a  turbine,  okay?  All  right. And  then  I  come  back  down, and  I  do  the  same  thing  with  my  turbine. Here's  my  W  dot  out  from  it. And  you  have  this  heat  exchanger. You  have  a  heat  exchanger,  which  is  here. So  four,  three,  two,  one.  Okay? If  you  were  trying  to get  so  I  guess the  question  is,  what's  the  goal? So  what  is  the  goal  of  a  process  like  this? What  is  this? It's  a  turbine.  What  does  a  turbine  do? Workout.  It's  useful. You  know,  it  creates  work. What  do  you  think  is  going  to  happen  if  I  put a  heat  exchanger  and  I cool  off  the  gas  3-2  here? What  do  you  think  is  going  to  happen  to the  performance  of  this  second  turbine? So  let's  think  simpler. And  let's  open  up  to  the  crowd. What  is  the  formula  that  I just  showed  you  a  couple of  slides  before  for  work? Work  is  equal  to  the  integral  of  what  here? Okay,  one  at  one. Or  one  all  at  once. Like  go  bears. Yes,  please.  No. VDP  PDV  is  expansion  work,  right? This  is  a  constant  volume,  right? This  is  constant  volume. Okay.  So  to  get  work  out  of  something that's  constant  volume, it's  VDP  for  steady  flow,  right? So  you  have  V  DP  there,  okay? So  this  is  the  thing I  want  to  have  in  your  mind. So  now  I  go  from  state  three, and  I  cool  it  down  to  state  two. What  is  going  to  happen  to  the  workout  of that  turbine  if  I cool  down  from  State  three  to  State  two? Phone  a  friend. Please.  It's  going  to  go  down. Why?  But  I  don't have  temperature  in  this  formula. I  liked  it.  I  liked  where  you  were  going. Anyone  want  to  pick  up the  baton  in  front  of  you? No,  no,  pause.  Sorry. You're  decreasing  pressure. So  if  you  basically  take  heat  out  here, if  I  do  a  Q  out  here, then  the  P  two  is  going  to  go  down,  okay? Which  means  like  pinwheel, right,  it's  less  pressure. You're  going  to  have less  pressure  to  push  on  that  device, and  you're  going  to  get  less  workout,  okay? So  if  you  ran  that  in  reverse, you'd  get  fired,  okay? However,  let's  think  the  other  way. What  would  you  actually  do? So  if  I  gave  you  that  system  there, what  is  an  intelligent  thing  you  could  do? A  turbine.  Say  it  again. You  can  use  it  to  stop  a  turbine. Stop  a  turbine.  You  could  do. Sure.  You're  also  out  of  a  job. Add  heat.  That's  it. So  basically,  you  can  add  heat. You  can  do  a  Q  in  here, and  that's  done  later,  right? So  we'll  call  this  reheat. So  sometimes  this  will  be  called  reheat. Or  let's  think  about  this. Maybe  you  decide  you  want  to  take the  exhaust  gases  out of  this  and  something  like  that. That's  called  regeneration. And  we're  going  to  get  into  this  later,  okay? So  you're  going  to  do  things  to extract,  okay?  All  right. So  it  was  a  good  idea. Like  all  things,  you  know, we  started  off  a  little  bit  kind of  as  a  nice  question, but  there  is  something  to  it.  Yes,  please? Okay.  So  how  would the  two  stage  with  the  heat  extender  in the  middle  of  it  be  different  than a  single  stage  where it  loses  heat  during  the  process? So,  you  want  to  do  the  cooling. Basically,  you  want  to  cool the  compressor  while  you do  it.  It's  possible. The  point  of  that  is  that  then  I  can't  come up  to  the  whiteboard  here  and  do  it in  a  very  elegant  way  like  I've  done,  right? So  I  take  it  and  I  break  it  down. I  can  do  one  stop  isotropic, right,  where  I  don't  deal with  the  heat  additions, and  I  can  do  it  reversibly, and  then  the  next  one  where  I'm  taking heat  out  while  it  happens. We  have  cycles  that  are coming  where  we're  going  to  do  that, but  it's  not  today,  okay? But  it  is  a  fair  question,  all  right? Yes,  please.  Temperature  So this  is  I  believe  you  guys are  saying  the  same  thing,  right? So  he's  basically  saying, I  will  take  the  heat  out  of  it  to  keep  it cool  while  I'm  operating,  is  what  I  got. Or  did  I  misunderstand? I'm  looking  at  the  graph instead  of  just  going  straight  up. Is  that  would  you  say  that  that's a  similar  thought  to  what  you  had  or  no? So  what  he's  basically  saying  is  while I'm  doing  this,  I'm  also  cooling. So  while  I'm  putting  the  work  in, I'm  basically  taking  the  heat out  while  it  happens,  okay? All  right.  But  as  you  can imagine  in  this  analysis,  right? Like,  I  want  to  be  able  to  say  that this  thing  operates  reversibly, okay?  So  at  optimum. To  be  able  to  use  my  entropy  being  constant, I  have  to  treat  that  adiabatically,  right? So  it  needs  to  be an  adiabatic  process  to  get  to  get  to  that. I  Right. And  then  we  go  down. I  think  what  you're  saying  is essentially  to  keep  it  flat  in  this  analysis, it  would  be  like  an  infinite  series of  compressors  in  a  row  with, like,  little  bits  a  little  bits of  heat  taken  out,  okay? And  we're  going  to  do  this. We're  basically  going  to  get  into cycles  and  analysis  like  that later  that  build  on  these  two  thoughts. These  are  two  very  nice  thoughts, actually  we  have,  okay? All  right.  Other  questions? Other  nice  thoughts.  This  side of  the  room  is  crushing  it. You  guys,  you  just  saving  for  later. Okay,  that's  good.  All  right.  All  right. So  if  there's  not,  then  what  I'm  going  to  do, I'll  is  that  recording  on  that? Let  me  erase  and  then  we can  dive  into  some  entropy  analysis. All  right.  Okay,  entropy  balance. Like,  why  would  we  do  this? So,  the  reason  why  we're  going  to  get  into this  is  because  sometimes entropy  is  easier,  all  right? And  okay. So  we  end  the  first  law,  right? The  first  law  basically  says,  like, heat  and  work  are  the  same,  right? They're  equivalent.  Delta  U is  Q  minus  W,  right? The  second  law  tells you  that  they  are  not,  all  right? There's  all  kinds  of  energy. It's  very  weird. We  don't  fully  understand  it. Um,  But entropy  is  something  we  do  understand, one,  and  two,  we  can  use it  to  kind  of  make these  things  equivalent,  right? When  we're  dealing  with work  in  heat  interactions, we're  going  to  be  able  to  draw  the  same control  volumes  that  we  did before  and  only  deal with  entropy  there,  right? It's  a  property.  That's  a  nice  thing. So  we  can  talk  about  the  fluid  streams. We've  got  a  nice  formula  for  heat, and  we  say  that  for  work transfer  processes  that  are  reversible, there  is  no  change  in  entropy,  right? So  from  the  beginning, it  seems  like  we're  on  a  more firm  firm  basis,  right? Yeah,  so  it's  It doesn't  exist  in  various  forms. It's  equally  confusing  to  all,  right? It's  a  nice  thing,  right? And  the  way  we're  going  to  do  the  balance, the  only  difference  between this  and  what  we  had  before, we'll  start  off  the  same,  right? So  we're  going  to  have a  change  in  the  entropy of  some  control  volume  that  we  draw. That's  equal  to  the  amount  we  bring  in,  okay, total  entropy  entering  minus the  total  that  leaves. And  then  we  have  one  other  term which  is  generated,  right? What's  an  example  of  entropy  generation? Kai?  Something  that  generates  heat. Could  be.  Friction,  right? So  you  can  have  something  that's happened  and  it's  friction, maybe,  you  know, the  compressor  and  stuff  before. That's  exactly  it,  right? So  it  is  something  that can  be  generated,  right? So  that's  really  the  only  additional  thing conceptually  to  this  balance compared  to  what  we  had from  the  energy  before, is  that  it  can  be generated  within  the  control  volume. Alright?  And  you  remember before  when  I  said,  Okay, whether  or  not  to  know  if  something's a  work  transfer  process or  a  heat  transfer  process, what  did  I  say  to  you before  was  like  the  rule? How  did  you  know  the  difference?  Temperature. If  there  was  a  difference  in  temperature, right, it  was  heat  transfer,  and  if  there  wasn't, then  it  was  work  transfer. Here,  we'll  give  you  another  one. If  you  have  an  energy  interaction accompanied  by  entropy  transfer, that's  going  to  be  heat  transfer. If  you  have  an  energy  interaction that's  not  accompanied by  entropy  transfer,  it's  work,  right? So  again,  think  about  that  work  interaction before,  the  turbine,  Iropic? I  do  this,  and  I  have  no  change  in  entropy. Work,  okay?  I  do  this  thing, and  I  have  that  massive  line. Remember  that  line  before,  which  was  here, right?  So  then  I  have  this  one. Heat. Heat  work. Okay.  Bless  you. All  right. Cool. Um,  yeah,  so  the  mechanisms,  again, if  we  come  back  to that  smaller  control  volume where  I'm  not  bringing  any  mass  in, you're  going  to  be  transferring in  entropy  here  with  heat,  right? So  I  have  some  Q,  right? You  know,  if  it's  a  constant  temperature, so  if  I'm  transferring into  or  out  of  a  reservoir, thermal  reservoir,  you  know, you're  going  to  be  able  to  write  that. If  it's  not,  then  you need  to  be  able  to  relate changes  in  heat  to  temperature,  right? We  did  that  before  with  things like  with  sensible  heating,  right? What  was,  like,  one  formula  we  had for  relating heat  heat  transfer  to  temperature? MCP  Delta  T,  right? So  we  basically  had something  like  that,  you  know, for  the  solids  and  for  the  liquids, that's  a  common  way  to  deal  with  that. As  we  also  saw  from before  when  we  did  it  in  class, I  think  some  people  had just  taken  a  guess  and  said,  Okay, what  if  I  just  do  the  heat  divided  by the  temperature  and  it turned  off  that  was  off. It  was  only  off  by  like  10%  for  the  purposes of  that,  you  know,  analysis,  okay? So  this  is  the  way  that  entropy can  be  transferred  into  a  closed  system. If  it's  an  open  system,  right, in  addition  to  that  mechanism, a  fluid,  right? So  I  can  have  a  fluid  and the  fluid  can  carry  entropy  in,  right? So  again,  in  the  original  energy  analysis, right,  I  could  bring  energy  in  by  work. I  could  bring  it  by  heat, and  I  could  bring  it  in  by  mass,  all  right? In  entropy,  I  cannot bring  it  in  by  work,  okay? I'm  bringing  it  in  by  heat, and  I  am  bringing  it  in  by mass  that  can  be  brought  in. Okay.  And  because  it's a  property,  it's  convenient,  right? I  can  just  say  I  have  this  M dot  fluid  stream  in. I  know  the  state  of  it,  I  know  the  entropy. So  I  have,  you  know,  M  dot  as  in,  okay? Cool.  Yes,  so  then you  do  some  balances,  right? So  here's  an  example,  then,  right? We  have  a  single  stream  in, single  stream  out.  All  right. So  you  want  to  look  at,  let's  say, the  change  in  the  entropy, that  control  volume. I  can  do  the  heat  in. I  have  the  entropy  by  mass, and  of  course,  I  can also  have  generation,  okay? Um  what's  a  way that  I  can  have  generation  inside  of  this? We'll  do  this  with  a  heat  exchanger. But  anything  that  happens, right,  like,  let's  say, irreversibly  inside  of that  container  could  be  generation. We  said  friction,  heat  transfer. It  could  also  be  mixing,  right? So  if  you  think  about mixing  as  a  process,  right, you  can  have  changes  in  entropy from  from  mixing. Okay? Yeah.  So  if  you  get  into  the  steady  state, so  this  is  non  ate  form, again,  just  like  we  did  before  in  ate  form. A  lot  of  times  in  these  analysis  here, we'll  do  it,  you  know,  for  a  second. But,  so  the  rate  of  change of  um  And  so  we'll  see  the  rate of  change  of  entropy in  my  control  volume  dt  is  equal to.in  minus  dot  out  plus  dot  gen,  all  right? If  we  assume  it's a  steady  process,  this  is  going  to  go  away. And  so  what  you'll  have  is  that  dot  gen  is equal  to  dot  out  minus.in. And  this  is  going  to  be a  very  common  formula  for  us,  right, that  we're  going  to  use  to  then understand  this  generation,  all  right? Alright,  I  got  7  minutes. I  think  I  can  do  it. Alright.  I'll  leave  that  one  there. So  in  this  problem,  we're  looking at  a  heat  exchanger. Heat  exchangers  are  very  important. And  this  is  I  think it's  mimicking  a  shower,  if  I  remember. Singles  are  some  funny  examples. So  here  we're  bringing  in  cold  water into  this  heat  exchanger  at this  temperature  and  conditions, and  it's  exiting. Now  we're  bringing  hot  water in  from  this  side, and  it's  exiting  here. We  know,  right,  the  Delta  Ts  here. So,  um,  Presumably  because  we  know, let's  say, the  phase  of  this  water  that's  here, probably  we  could  if we  assumed  a  pressure  of  this, let's  say,  like  1  atmosphere, I'd  be  able  to  know  the  enthalpy in  and  the  enthalpy  out. Or,  and  this  is  what  we'll  also  do. We  can  rely  on  the  fact  that  changes  in enthalpy  for  sensible  heating  DH  is  CPET. We  can  also  try  this  on  for  size. And  in  this  example,  you  get  to compare  values  you  get  from the  property  tables  or  from Picor  against  what  you  could  have  from, um,  from  from  this  analysis. Alright,  and  the  take  home message  out  of  this  is  because  I  know the  inlet  and  I  know  the  outlet  of this  in  those  states  and end  of  the  mass  florid, I'm  going  to  know  the  heat  leaving,  okay? The  key  insight  is  the  heat leaving  or  the  heat entering  into  the  cold  stream. For  this  heat  exchanger, a  lot  of  times the  heat  exchangs  they're  very  insulated, so  there's  no  heat  transfer  in or  out  of  them  on  the  outside. But  internally,  the  heat  that goes  into  the  cold  water  must come  from  the  hot  water,  okay? And  so  from  that, you're  going  to  be  able  to  determine, then  the  rest  of the  information  basically  the  exit  state  here because  you  know  the  mass  flow rate  of  that,  okay? Let's  do  it.  Alright. So  I  am  not  going  to  well, I  guess  what  I'll  redraw  is  I'll  redraw the  control  volumes  there. And  so  we  can  answer  the  first  question. So  the  first  question  is the  rate  of  heat  transfer. This  is  pretty  trivial. So  what  we'll  do  there is  we'll  just  take  the  water. So  I  have  this  water  stream  here, which  is  going  in  and  out. Okay?  I'm  going  to draw  my  control  volume  around  that. So  I'll  draw  that  control  volume  around the  cold  water  streams of  the  blue  one  up  there. I'm  going  to  call  this  is  State  one, and  I'm  going  to  call  this is  state  two,  okay? I  have  the  MDOT. Let's  call  it  MDOT  cold  here, which  is  also,  known. And  for  this  control  volume, all  we  can  say  is  that there's  going  to  be  maybe  like aq.in  that  is  happening,  okay? So  it's  a  steady  flow,  no  work  interaction. And  so  this  q.in  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  dot  code  times the  enthalpy  at  state  two minus  the  enthalpy  at  state  one,  all  right? And  we  can  approximate  this as  saying  because  it  doesn't  change  phase, we  can  say  dot  code  is CP  two  minus  one,  all  right? If  we  do  it  this  way  or  let's  say  this. If  I  do  it  this  way  to the  MDOT  cold  is  what  0.95  kilograms/second. What's  the  specific  heat  of  water? 4.18  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin,  right? And  our  Delta  T  is  what? It's  80  70,  70  degrees C  minus  ten  degrees C.  All  right.  And  you'll  get  a  number. The  number  that  I  have  for  this  is  238. 238.3  kilowatts,  okay. If  on  the  other  hand,  you  want  to  give it  a  go  with  something  like  Pi  killer, you  know,  this  is,  you  know, water  that's  coming  in  from  the  house. You  could  take  a  guess  and  say,  Okay, maybe  this  P  one  here  is  maybe  like  100  kPa, you  know,  something  like  an  atmosphere. It's  a  heat  exchanger, so  P  two  is  equal  to  P  one. And  from  that,  you  could  do  a  substitution. You  could  figure  out  what those  enthalpies  are  from  that  state. And  the  number  that  you'll  get is  238.5  kilowatts,  okay? So  single  phase  water  and  bringing  heat in  dot  Cp  delta  T.  Cp  Delta  T, not  too  shabby,  not too  shabby,  and  very  fast,  okay? Someone  even  knew  that off  the  top  of  their  head. They  knew  the  C,  they  knew  the  Delta  T, and  you  got  a  value  that's  good  for  almost to  the  fourth  decimal,  all  right? Fourth  a  significant  figure.  All  right? Okay.  So  that's  the  heat  transferred  in. So  this  is  Q  dot  N. That's  wonderful.  All  right. To  do  this  analysis,  though,  right? So  to  be  able  to  get  to  the  entropy,  though. So  for  the  cute  item, this  is  perfectly  acceptable. But  if  I  want  to  determine  things like  entropy  here, I  will  have  to declare  the  temperature,  right? So  I  knew  the  temperature  was  a  value. I  knew  that  I'll  assume  a  pressure, and  out  of  this,  I'll  get  to  an  S  one. We  also  got  to  an  H  one  this  way. And  for  the  case  here,  right, so  the  T  two  was  also  a  given. If  I  have  that  pressure, I  can  also  get  to  an  S. I  can  also  get  to  an  S  two. All  right.  All  right, so  now  we  can  deal  with  the  other  stream, which  is  basically  the  hot  water. So  here's  the  hot  water. Okay. Here's  my  control  volume  for  the  hot  water. Let's  say  this  is  state  three  here. This  is  state  four  here. I've  got  an  M  dot  hot  that's  coming  in. I'm  given  a  temperature of  85  degrees  Celsius, and  I'm  given  the  M  dot. And  we  know  that  there's  a  Q  dot out  from  it  that's then  heating  the  water,  right? So  Q  dot  out  is  going  to  be equal  to  M  dot  hot  times H  three  minus  H  four. Q  dot  out  is  equal  to  q.in, which  is  what  we  had  before. So  that's  the  238238,  kilowatts. The  dot  hot  is  a  given. H  three,  we  could  get. So  if  I  say  85  degrees  C,  again, let's  just  hazard  a  guess  and  call it  like  100  kPa. With  that  information,  so  with  P  three known  and  with  T  three  known, I'm  going  to  be  able  to  know  what I  know  what  H  three  is  an  S  three. So  I  know  H  three,  I  know  the  M  dot, I  know  the  Q  dot,  and  now  I  know  H, but  I  know  H  four,  okay? And  the  point  is  for  state  four,  All  right, so  for  state  four,  if  I know  H  four  that's  there,  and  again, if  I  say  P  four  is  equal  to  P  three, I'm  going  to  be  able  to  say  that  I know  what  S  four  is,  okay? And  the  take  home  message, did  I  get  rid  of  it? I  got  rid  of  it. The  take  home  message  from  this,  though, is  that  essentially  the  dot  gen  that I  wrote  before  is  going  to  be  dot  cold. Times  S  two  minus  one  plus  m dot  hot  times  S  four  minus  S  three,  okay? With  that,  I'll  close  there. We'll  get  more  into  this  and  more  practice, you  know,  with  some  time, but  at  least  as  a  starter  into some  entropy  analysis,  okay?
