Be No. The  project.  The  images that  were  in  the  pip  notebook  that  we  added are  technically  not  in the  notebooks  that  are  in the  direct  Zip  file. You  can  probably  You might  be  able  to  upload  multiple  files, but  I  don't  think  so.  I  think  I  would. You. Okay.  I  have  310.  Get  started. So  I  received  of  e  mails  about  homeworks, and  And request  for  an  extension. So  officially  during  RRR,  right, you're  not  supposed  to  have,  like, homework  and  projects  that  are  due. So  the  official  deadline  is basically  Friday  at  midnight. But  my  understanding  is  that  there's  a  lot  of cramming  and  stuff  happens,  and  life  happens. So  essentially,  I'll  put  it  to Wednesday  at  midnight  for  the  extension. Okay?  I  have  a  bunch  of  you  for  tomorrow. For  the  Invites  here's a  few  more  slots  that  are  open. For  that,  otherwise, my  entire  day  tomorrow  is  booked. Friday,  I  have  two qualification  exams  to  sit  through. So  means  tomorrow,  I  sit  for 8  hours  on  meetings. And  Friday,  I  have  6  hours  of  exams  to  be  in. So  Friday,  the  only  time  I'll  have  to discuss  Friday  is  after  lecture  here. Okay?  Are  there  any  questions? Jason  Both,  Yeah. So  my  understanding  is there's  a  conflict  between  the  two, so  the  idea  is  just  extend  both  of  them, and  then  you  can  optimize  yourself. Other  questions?  Amila. I  can't  hear.  Say  it  again. If  you  want  to  talk  with  me  during  RR, you  can  send  me  a  message. I  think  last  year,  what  I  did  is  that  I believe  this  lecture  hall  is free  during  the  three  lectures. So  probably  an  efficient  way is  just  that  I'm  here,  you  know, at  3:00  on  Monday,  Wednesday,  Friday, and  then  if  you  guys  want  to  discuss, feel  free  to  come  by  then. Is  that  okay?  I'll  make a  note  about  that  right  now. Okay.  Other  questions? Okay.  So,  we're  going to  talk  about  chemical  reactions. So  like  I  said,  in  the  history  of sort  of  thermo  All  right, the  original  motivation  was,  you  know, understanding  heat  in  to  work and  and  vice  versa. And  then  out  of  that,  started  to  become  more interested  in  the  processes  that are  spontaneous. And  then  really,  you  know, a  very  important  application out  of  that  was  an  end  to analyzing  the spontaneous  reaction  of  chemical  systems, but  also  how  much  heat  they absorb  or  release,  right? And  so  this  is  right  propane  here. So,  for  those  of  you  who  have  the,  you  know, Weber  grills  and  our BBQ  masters,  I  love  the  barbecue. Um  You  know,  so  if  you're  into  that,  right, this  is  sort  of  a  familiar, you  know,  maybe  a  familiar process  with  it,  right? Relatively  straightforward.  So,  you  know, what  you  have  in  coming  here  is a  low  molecular  weight  hydrocarbon,  right? So  c3h8,  this  is propane  and  25  c  in  1  atmosphere, and  then  you  have  air  coming  in  at the  same  pressure  and  temperature. You  have  some  reaction  that  occurs. And  then  it's  the  products. You  know,  that  are  coming out  then  are  also  at the  same  temperature  and  pressure. The  products  here  are  then, carbon  dioxide  and  water. A  non  participating  molecule in  that  that  comes  in  with  air  is, of  course,  the  nitrogen. And  so  what  we're  going  to  go  through right  now  is  how  to analyze  this  term,  this  HC. Does  anyone  know  what  HC  is? Say  it  again.  Yeah,  heat of  combustion  or  enthalpy  of  combustion. Sometimes  this  is  called  more generally  a  reaction  enthalpy, but  it's  like  if a  reaction  is  exothermic  or  endothermic, endo  it's  absorbing  heat, o  it's  releasing  heat. So  this  tells  you  quantitatively  then how  much  heat  you're absorbing  or  you're  releasing  there. That's  the  purpose  of  today  is  to  take  you through  that,  that  analysis. An  important  part  of  this  is  that  right? We're  getting  into  reactions. You  know,  things  are getting  a  bit  complicated. And  to  make  this,  you  know,  work, we  have  to  more  or  less  kind  of agree  on  what  we  call  as  a  reference  state. So  a  standard  reference  state,  the  textbook. And  I'm  assuming  this is,  you  know,  more  generally, and  setting  the  reference  state is  25  degrees  Celsius, and  the  pressure  is  equal to  1  atmosphere,  right? And  when  we  get  into  things  like,  you  know, entropies,  and in  that  at  the  reference  state. The  way  that  I'm  going  to  denote that  is  with  this  kind  of  little  circle. This  little  degree  symbol  there  is  going  to indicate  that  I'm  taking  this  property, right  at  this  reference  state,  right? What  you'll  also  see  in  the  book  for  this. I  don't  really  like  this  notation, but  you'll  see  this in  the  book  is  sometimes  they'll write  like  a  bar  over  the  top  of  enthalpy. And  what  this  is  to  denote  is  that  This is  units  then  basically  kilo  joule per  kilo  mole,  right? So  if  you  ever  see  the  bar  above  it, this  means  that  it's  on  a  molar  basis, or  as  you  probably  recall previously  for  what  we  did,  right? The  units  of  this  were  kilojoule per  kilo  gram,  right? So  on  a  mass  basis. I  don't  really  follow  this  notation because  I  think  it's,  you  know, you  should  be  able  to  essentially  deduce  from the  fact  that  this  is  going  to  be multiplied  probably  by  an  N, which  is  a  number  of  moles  or kilo  moles,  and  that's  going  to  get  it  in. So  I  don't  do  I  don't  write  in  that because  I  think  it's  unnecessary. With  the  context,  you  don't  need  it. All  right? Alright,  so  that's  the  first  piece  of housekeeping  that  we  that  we  have. The  second  thing  is  to  then  look  at the  reaction  and  the  reaction  itself. Also,  we're  lucky.  We  have purple  today.  Maybe  I'll  break  that  out. All  right.  I  read  for,  like,  several  weeks. All  right. So  our  reactions  we  have  propane,  right? Which  is  entering  at a  at  a  liquid  state.  I'm  denote  it  like  this. So  that's  my  chemical  formula. And  in  parentheses  there,  I  use  a  little  L, which  indicates  that  it's  a  liquid  plus five  times  two,  oxygen,  right? Diatomic  molecule  plus  3.76. N  two.  And  then  this becomes  three  CO  two  plus 4h2o  plus  18.8  n  two. All  right.  And Right?  The  reason  for  this  is,  you  know, because  it's  entering  as  an  air,  right? So  you  know,  oxygen  is participating  in  the  reaction  here,  right? This  is  how  we're  getting  out the  carbon  dioxide  in  the  water. But  the  nitrogen  is  coming  in, you  know,  naturally  with  the  air, so  it  must  also  appear  on  this  side, even  if  it  doesn't  if  it  doesn't  react,  okay? And  you  have  the  temperatures and  the  pressures  that are  given  You  can  look  this  up, you  know,  of  course, online,  but  each  of  these  things, has  its  own,  you  know,  molar  mass. So  for  example,  with  carbon,  right? We  have  12  kilograms  per  kilomol  oxygen  32, this  is  diatomic,  hydrogen  H  two, which  is  two,  air,  which  is  29, kilograms  per  kilomole  and  CO  two, which  is  44,  right? And  If  we  look  just at  the  combustion  process there  and  modeling  it  with  the  heat, we  can  say  that  that  heat that's  absorbed  or  transferred  in  or transferred  out  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  difference  of  the  enthalpy of  the  products, right,  which  I  did  not.  Here  I  can  write. You  know,  short  for  the  products. So  that's  the  products are  what  are  on  the  right  hand  side, and  then  minus  the  hp  of  the  reactants. And  the  reactants  that  are  on the  left  hand  side  there. And  this  is  nothing,  but  in this  simplified  example, where  we  have  everything  entering  and exiting  at  the  reference  state, this  would  be  nothing  but  the  summation of  the  number  of  moles  of  the  products. I'm  just  going  to  write  P,  you know,  P  for  that. And  then  the  enthal  P.  At the  reference  state  of F  P.  I'll  get  to  what  f  is  in  a  second. And  then  this  is  minus the  summation  of  the  number  of  moles  of the  reactants  times  the  entop  at the  reference  state,  F  R.  Okay. And  HF,  so  this  HF  is  H  F  like  that. This  is  what  we  call  the  enthalpy of  of  formation,  right? So  in  a  simple  example, like  I  take  carbon  and I  take  oxygen  and  I  bring  them  in. And  then  what's  output  is  then, you  know,  carbon  dioxide,  right? That's  the  enthalpy  to  then  form.  CO  two. So  here  in  the  book  definition,  you  know, it's  simply  the  enthalpy  of  a  substance  at a  specified  state  due  to its  chemical  composition,  right? To  give  this  a  bit  of  a  better  meaning, if  this  value  is  less  than  zero,  right? It  means  that  you've  absorbed or  it's  released  heat. So  it's  exothermic.  You  have  heat  coming  out. And  if  this  value  is  greater  than  zero, then  you're  going  to essentially  be  absorbing,  right, basically  absorbing  heat  endothermic  process, okay? The  next  thing  is  that  when  it  comes  to this  discussion  of the  degree  symbols  in  the  circles,  right? You  kind  of  have  a  free  choice in  a  sense  of,  you  know, what  you  might  define  these  H  of  values  as. And  so  what  the  book  says  is  that for  substances  that  are  stable,  right? So  substances  that  are  essentially  stable  at this  25  degrees  C  and  1  atmosphere, we're  going  to  say  that  this  H  F  degree equals  to  zero. So  does  anyone  have  a  hazard a  gas  as  to  what  substances  would  have an  HF  of  zero at  25  degrees  C  in  1  atmosphere,  Pietro. Nitrogen  Nitrogens  more  specifically. Nitrogen  gas  N  two. Yeah.  So  n  two  is  one. J?  02.  I'll  take  two.  Another  one? I  C  two.  What  that  means  the  trees.  You  know? So  yeah,  you  can  have  h2o, as  a  gaseous  form. You  can  have  H  two  Here, what  are  we  having  here?  I'm  sorry. No,  no.  So  we'll  take  n22. I  have  written  as examples  of  ones  where  the  HF  is  zero. Things  are  stable  at  the  conditions. And  If  you  want to  look  up  what  these  values  are, you  may  go  to  the  table A  A  26  in  your  textbook, and  you  can  see  it. I  did  try  to  look  through with  the  electronic  tables, if  it's  possible  to, like,  pull  these  things  out. Yesterday  when  I  gave  it  a  read, it  doesn't  seem  to  be, Something  that  was  as  simple  to  pull. The  good  part  though  is  that  these are  just  like  a  constant,  right? One  substance  has  it  at  this  condition. So  this  is  also  the  kind  of  thing  that you  could  just  put  into  a  Jupiter  notebook, and  indeed,  that's  what  I  have  here. So  if  you  launched  that,  you  could  see basically  the  values  that  I've set  for  CO  two,  you  know, h2o,  carbon  nitrogen,  hydrogen  oxygen, and  so  on  and  so  forth, are  listed,  with  that,  right? Good. The  one  thing  that's  a little  bit  tricky,  though, so  the  first  thing  that's a  little  bit  tricky  with this  problem  is  the  fact that  we're  specified  as  a  liquid. As  a  liquid  for  this. And  the  reason  why  that's  a  little bit  tricky  is  because  if  you  were  to go  to  this  table A  26  and  rightfully  start  to  try  to  look  up, you  know,  this  HF  P  for  the  reactant,  right? That's  going  to  be  a  reactant. What  you're  going  to  see  is  that  for  the  HF, the  HF  here  c3h8 is  on  a  basically  only  for  a  a  gas. So  it's  basically  only  for  a  gas, and  it  gives  you  a  value, I  have  a  value  of  -103  850  kilo  joules per  kilomole,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  a  problem because  we  need  to  get  this  into the  liquid  state  for  this  reaction. If  we  just  move  along  though, to  the  other  substances  and then  circle  back  to  how we'll  deal  with  the  liquid  one. So  we  need  to  know  our  oxygen,  right? So  our  HF,  this  402, as  equal  to  zero,  right? Because  this  is  at the  standard  temperature  and pressure  for  the  inlet. The  nitrogen  is  also  the  same. So  this  for  n  two  is  also  equal  to  to  zero. All  right.  Let  me  see  what  this  continuing on  for  the  HF  h2o. This  is,  again, a  you  have  a  free  choice  with  this. You  can  assume  at  the  outlet that  it  comes  out  as  a  liquid, or  it  comes  out  as  a  as  a  vapor. Again,  I'll  circle  back  in  a  second  as  to what  the  consequence  of  that  would  be, but  you  can  write  h2o. And  we  can  call  this  like  a  gas  there. And  then  in  the  case  when  it's  a  gas, it's  minus  24182  kiloju per  kilomole. We  do  it  for  the  liquid,  H  F,  circle, h2o,  liquid, and  that's  equal  to  negative  285830. Killer  joules  per  kilomole. All  right.  And  I  already have  the  case  with  with  the  gas. So  that's  good.  I  prefer. Maybe  we  can  do  something  like  that. All  right. So  we  come  back  to  this. We  can  define,  We can  define  the  H  f  zero  of  propane  or  c3h8. But  for  the  liquid,  this  is  nothing but  the  enthalpy  of  vaporization,  right? So  it's  basically  the  enthalpy  that  it  takes to  take  the  liquid  propane  and to  boil  it  to  a  vapor  at that  pressure,  kilog  per  kilomole. And  then  that  will  be  added  to  this  H  F  here, c3h8,  which  was  for  the  gas  case  there. All  right.  And  this  you  can  look  up. So  the  value  that  I  have  in the  textbook,  this  is  five Kilojoules  per  kilogram. You  need  to  multiply  this  then  by the  molar  mass  of  propane, which  I  have  is  44  kilograms  per  kilomole. And  then  you  would  have  that  in  kilojoules per  per  kilomole  there. And  this  value,  if you  substituted  and  calculated, I  have  this  as  minus, and  I  need  to  be  careful  because  this  is a  is  a  negative  value. So  if  you  want  to  get  this  right,  that's basically  a  negative  of  this, and  then  negative  of  the  whole  thing  there. And  if  you  did  that, you  would  get  negative  118, 622  kilo  joules  per  kilomole. All  right.  Good.  And  now  I  would  like  to  v. So  it's  a  little  bit  confusing,  Sam. I'll  try  to  walk  you  through  it. So  if  I  want  to  get  this  right, this  original  value  here  is  a  negative, right?  Is  a  negative. Alright?  And  basically, we  need  to  supply  extra  entropy, right,  in  order  to  take  that  from its  liquid  state  to  the  vapor  and  combust  it. And  so  we  need  to  add the  entopa  vaporization  to  it. If  we  just  take  this  value  and add  it  directly  to  the  original  value, we're  going  to  end  up  with an  entop  that's  less, and  that  doesn't  make  sense. And  so  to  do  this,  you  basically  take the  negative  of  the  original  value, which  makes  a  positive  term, add  it  to  a  positive  term, and  then  recorrect  it  again  to  make  it negative  according  to the  convention  here.  Okay? It  will  make  sense.  Jackson  smiling at  me,  but  yeah,  Petri? Did  I  not  write  it? I'm  sorry.  Yeah.  Thank  you  for  catching  that. So  the  H  circle  F  C  two, I  have  is  equal  to negative  393520  kilos  per  kilomole. Is  there  another  one missing  or  is  it  just  that  one? Okay.  Other  questions? Jackson.  I'm  sorry. Yeah.  Good. Okay.  All  right. So  now  we  have  So  we  have  so  if you  look  back  at this  you  know,  equation  here, if  you  want  to  now  get  into this  queue  that's  transferred, I'm  claiming  that  we  have  all of  the  necessary  information. Why  is  that?  We  have these  enthalpies  of  the  products  and the  reactants,  all  defined,  right? We  have  the  propane  and  the liquid  form  there  here. We  have  the  02,  which  is  zero. The  nitrogen,  which  is  zero, the  CO  two,  which  Pietro kindly  noted  that  we  needed. We  have  the  h2o.  We  have  two  versions, one  where  it's  a  gas  or  a  vapor, and  one  where  it's  a  liquid. So  we're  going  to  have  to  calculate two  different  values  for  this. And  then  we  have  nitrogen  again, which  is  which  is  zero,  right? So  if  we  put  this  together, so  we  can  say  that  this  HC. All  right.  So  again,  looking  at  that  formula. So  HC,  so  the  entropy  of  combustion, you  know,  is  for  this  problem,  by  definition, equal  to  the  difference  of the  entopy  of  the  products  minus the  entopy  of  of  the  reactants,  right? And  If  you're  asking  yourself, what  are  going  to  be the  ends  that  we  choose  for  this? The  ends  that  you're  going  to  choose are  going  to  be  relative  to, let's  say,  like  one  kilo  mole  of  propane. In  this  formula,  you  know,  we  bring  in one  kilo  mole  of  the  propane. The  number  of  moles  of  oxygen we'll  need  to  bring  in  is  five. You  know,  the  number  of  moles of  carbon  dioxide  that are  going  to  leave  her  three, 4  moles  for  the  water,  right? So  again,  this  HC  then, Well,  we  will  work first  with  the  liquid  water. This  is  going  to  be  equal  to  three. Three.  So  I  think you're  thinking  about  the  products. So  the  products  are  the  positive. So  I  three  times  F  C  02. All  right  plus  four. Times  H  fh2o.  All  right. For  completeness,  I'll  include  also the  nitrogen  even  though the  HF  value  is  going  to  be  zero,  right? That'd  be  plus  18.8  H F  and  20  that's  our  positive  terms. And  then  we  have  a  all of  our  negative  terms,  right? So  our  negative  terms  then  are  the  reactants. So  those  are  the  ones  that are  the  ones  that  are  coming  in. So  we  have  first  here  the  1  mole  of  propane. So  we  have  one  times  hf0c3  H  eight,  right? And  again,  this  applies  for  the  liquid  case. And  then  this  is  minus  plus cause  this  is  the  negative  so  plus five  times  the  hf0o2. And  then  we  have  plus  five times  3.5  times  3.76. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  H  F and  two,  right? Correct?  Correct. Yeah.  And  like  I  said, for  the  water  vapor  here, we  denoted  this  as  the  gas  or  for  the  liquid. And  so  for  this  first  one, we're  going  to  treat  this  as a  as  a  liquid  as  a  liquid. So  which  terms  go  away? And  two,  I  heard.  All  right. So  this  is  out. And  this  is  out  because  it  zero. What's  another  one?  0202.  I  heard. Right.  So  your  two  is  also  out,  C  02. This  is  not  zero, not  zero  and  non  zero. And  so  if  you  went  and  substituted the  values  that  I  have  here  on the  left  and  multiply  them with  the  moles  that  we  have. This  HC  value  where  the  water  in the  products  is  assumed  to  be a  liquid  is  then  50009. Kilojoules  per kilogram,  and  the  way  that  you  get this  to  be  in  this  in this  is  that  obviously  from  this  HC, here,  this  original  HC here  has  to  be  multiplied then  by  the  molar  mass of  c3h8  to  then  put  it  in  to  this  formation. If  you  take  this  term  here and  you  multiply  it  then  by its  or  kilograms per  kilomoles  divided,  right? Divided. Apologies.  So  if  you  take  this  term  here, divided  by  the  molar  mass  of  propane, then  you  can  end  up  with  this  value, right?  And  this  thing. So  when  you  assume  that  water  is  the  liquid, and  you  calculate  that  enthopy  of  combustion, which  you'll  see  in the  textbook  is  that  this  is  called the  higher  heating  value,  right? So  H  H  V. Does  anyone  take  a  guess  why? You  think  that  that's  called the  higher  heating  value? Jason. Yes.  Exactly.  Am? So  this  is  because  this  is  the  entropy  of combustion  in  kilo  joules per  kilomole  of  propane. So  this  is  like  how  much  energy would  be  released  or  absorbed. How  much  heat  is  released  or absorbed  based  on one  kilo  of  propane entering  the  combustion  chamber. I  mean,  you  could,  of  course,  I  think, put  it  in  terms  of your  other  reactants,  right? If  you  wanted  to  then  talk about  this  is  the  hove of  combustion  on  the  basis  of  how  much, I  suppose  air  is  entering  the  system, you  could  also  do  it  that  way,  right? But  this  is  basically  like kilojoules  per  kilogram of  propane.  I'm  sorry. So,  again,  in  the  textbook, they  do  a  good  job  with  this. So  when  they  talk  about  this  is a  unit  that  say  kilojoules  of energy  release  per  kilogram of  let's  say,  the  reactant  there. In  this  case,  it's  propane. And  that's  why  I'm  dividing  by the  molar  mass  of  propane  there. Okay.  Great.  Rockin  and  rolling. So  coming  back  to  Jason's  good  point  there, then,  about  the  lower  heating  value. The  lower  heating  value. So  lower  heating. Value,  right,  which  we  call  is  the  L  H  V  is when  you  look  at  this  term  here, and  instead  of  treating  it  as  a  liquid, you  substitute  this  as  H  fh2o, and  then  R  notation  here. I'm  putting  a  little  G  for  for  gas,  right? And  If  you  went through  and  you  did basically  the  same  calculations. So  this  was  the  HV, the  LH  V.  For  this  entropy  of  combustion, then  if  you  substitute,  right, assuming  that  the  water  leaves  as  a  vapor, I  have  446017  kilos per  kilogram  of  propane  there. All  right.  Yes,  please. Jesse.  Oh.  Yes. So,  are  we  looking  at  this  formula  here? So  the  point  is  that  this value  in  your  textbook, this  entopa  vaporization, where  I  take  propane  from a  liquid  state  saturated  liquid to  a  saturated  vapor. That  value  I  can  only find  in  kilojoules  per  kilogram. So  to  incorporate  it  then  into this  entopa  formation  here, I  have  to  multiply  this  by the  molar  mass  of  propane, which  is  in  kilograms  per  kilomole  to  then get  this  term  to  be  in kilojoules  per  kilomole, such  that  I  can  add  it  with this  entopa  formation  of  the  gaseous  propane. So  that's  why  I  do  this.  This  one? Yeah.  So  the  point  is that  this  is  a  bit  of a  deficiency  of  the  tables. If  you  went  to  look  up  this  HF  enthalpy  of formation  of  propane  in the  textbook,  it's  only  for  a  guess. You  only  have  it  for  a  guess. But  again,  for  those barbecue  masters  out  there, when  you  have  it, it's  not  a  gas,  right?  It's  a  liquid. Right?  You're  going  to  have  this  as  maybe  as a  as  a  liquid  there, and  that's  also  then  what's described  in  my  reaction. Right? So  if  you  want  to  get that  right  in  the  balance, you  need  to  be  able  to  have  this  enthalpy  of formation  then  for  the  liquid  propane and  not  for  the  gaseous. And  the  way  to  get  it  then  to  be for  the  liquid  is  to  take  the  value  that you  had  for  the  gas  state and  essentially  increase it  by  an  amount  that  is the  enthalpy  of vaporization  of  the  substance. You  could  do  this.  You  guys ask  like  tricky  questions, but  I'm  assuming  this  approach  would  be valid  if  you  did  ethanol  or  another  fuel. So  I'm  going  to  ask  you  what  do  you  think? Do  you  think  it  would  be the  same  or  different? Different  value  because  you  have different  types  of  cohesion. Different  types  of  bonding  and  that, and  that's  ultimately  what  determines how  much  energy  you  need  to put  in  to  break  it  all  apart. Okay.  Good  question.  Yes,  please? So,  this  one  here  at this  stage  is  in  Kilojoules  per. This  is  just  in  kilojoules per  kilo  mole  of  basically, this  is  Yeah,  kilojoules  per kilomole  of  propane  here. And  I  would  like  to  have this  in  kilojoules  per kilogram  because  this  is usually  what  we're  working  with. You  know,  you're  not  gonna  go  to the  gas  station  and ask  them  for  30  moles  of  propane. You  know,  they're  gonna  look  at  you funny  and  throw  you  out,  right? So,  you  know,  so,  essentially, then  I  just  use  this  conversion  here  with the  molar  mass  to  get  it  into a  more  sensible  engineering  unit. Okay?  Okay,  what  I want  to  close  with  this  one before  I  go  to  the  next  problem is  to  say  that  one  could, for  example,  you  know, repeat  this  if  they were  working  with  ethanol,  right? So  if  one  was  looking  at  a  ethanol. So  there  what  do  you  have  you  have  c2h5. All  right,  plus  three  times two  gaseous  plus  sorry, 3.76  n  two,  right. And  then  this  becomes two  C  two  gaseous  plus  three  H  two  liquid plus  11.28  And  two. For  those  working,  for  example, maybe  on  the  on the  regenerative  rocket  cooling  problem, this  might  then  be  something that  could  be  useful. It  could  also  be  overkill, but  there  was  a  few  people  who had  expressed  an  interest  in, you  know,  how  do  I  calculate,  you  know, the  amount  of  heat  released  from  it, and  you  would  have  followed  basically a  similar  approach  for  this  there. Okay?  And  I  suppose  an  ethnols  is probably  also  liquid,  right?  Good. You  all  understand  reactions. Now  we  can  do a  steady  flow  combustion  chamber? Going  one.  Going  twice. Great. Okay. All  right.  So  now,  so  for  that  previous  one, maybe  just  to  point  out,  what's the  difference  when  we  go  to  this. And  this  previous  one, right,  everything  was  at the  standard  reference  state  of my  reactants  and  my  products. In  reality,  that,  you  know, that  may  not  be  the  case,  right? So  you  may  have  some  streams that  are  coming  in  at  the  standard  case, the  reference  case,  but it  may  be  that,  for  example, they're,  or  it  could  be  that they're  hot  than  that,  right? Here?  I  think  in this  case,  this  is  atmospheric. That's  a  good  point. Yeah,  you  would  always  be  given. You  would  also  be  given  the  pressure. Yes.  So  let's  assume  here  that we  have  atmospheric  pressure. But  for  the  sed  flow  reactive  systems, we  need  to  agree  on  the  right, the  enthalpy.  All  right. And  so  the  way  that  we  talk  about  enthalpy, for  these  systems  is  that  they're defined  then  as  the  entopy  of  formation. So  the  one  that  I  just  introduced to  you  before. This  is  then  the  sensible  enthalpy,  right? This  is  kind  of  the  enthalpy that  we're,  you  know, more  regularly  used  to, right  looking  up  in  the  tables or  in  the  textbook. And  then  this  is  then  minus  that  same  entop, but  it  is  at  the  reference  case,  okay? So  to  recap,  is the  enthalpy  of  formation,  essentially, like  entopy  of  it  as  a  chemical, right  there  through the  process  of  forming  it. The  enthalpy  of  that  substance, right  at  that  temperature  and  pressure. So  in  this  case,  that  would  be,  right, maybe  the  enthalpy  of  water at  1,500  Kalvin  in  1  atmosphere. And  then  this  would  be the  enthalpy,  let's  say, of  water  at  25  Celsius in  1  atmosphere,  right? So  again,  the  circles, the  little  circles  or  degree symbols  indicate  that  it's a  this  property  is  taken  at  25  degrees Celsius  and  one  in  1  atmosphere. All  right. All  right.  So  for  our  steady  flow, so  we  can,  you  know, write  with  this  definition  of  enthalpy, we  can  talk  about  analyzing this  control  volume  as  a  steady  flow  device. So  you  know,  I  steady  state, our  e  dot  n  is  equal  to  our  E  dot  E  dot. So  again,  mechanisms  by  which  we  can transfer  energy  in,  there. So  is  it  going  to  be  a  Q  dot  plus  a  Wt, and  then  pri  a  summation. Of,  let's  say,  an  n  dot  r,  right? So  the  rate  the  molar  flow  rates of  the  reactants. R  times  again,  our  definition  here, this  is  going  to  be  h  of  zero  plus  h  minus  h, there  reactant,  and  as  usual, what  we're  going  to  neglect  is  we're  going  to neglect  KE  and  n  p, so  potential  and  kinetic  energy. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  equal to  q  dot  plus W  plus  the  sum  of  n  products. Right  times  of  circle  plus  minus  zero, And  then  this  applies  to to  the  products  there. So  they  put  a  reactant  subscript outside  of  these  brackets  and  a  P for  products  as  a  subscript outside  of  these  brackets. All  right? And  so  for  cbion  chamber  here,  we  don't  have? We  don't  have  work.  We  don't  have  Q  in. We're  going  to  assume  that it's  a  que  based  on the  The  drawing  there. If  you  rearrange  this  then, write  your  dot  out  is  then  equal  to. This  would  be  equal  to  the  summation  of n  dot  r  times  h  f plus  h  minus  H  naught  reacted, and  then  this  is  minus  the  summation  of n  dot  product  H  F  plus h  minus  H  zero  product.  Super. Yeah,  and  that's  pretty  much  it. So  what  I'm  going  to  go  through  now  for the  next  10  minutes  is  how  to  pull  out these  individual  values  that we're  going  to  substitute for  the  different  parts  of  the  summation, for  the  reactants,  and  for the  and  for  the  products. So  we  could  write  this  out. Um  Completely,  although  on  my  page, my  page  is  cut  off  with  my  formula, but  we  should  be  we  should  be  able to  manage  with  this. So  the  Q  the  Q, right,  which  we  can  also just  write  in  non  rate  formats. So  we  can  also  just  call  it  Q is  equal  to  the  same  summation, but  we're  going  to  just  call  it  NR. You  know,  reactants. And  then  this  is  then  summation  of  N  P. All  right. But  the  same  thing  where  the  parts that  are  inside  the  brackets  are  there. Again,  in  the  textbook, they  say  for  combustion  processes, it  doesn't  tend  to  be  the  molar  flow  rates. They  just  work  with  moles,  right? So  if  we  stay  with  that  and  we write  Q,  right? So  if  Q  is  equal  to  n. So  what's  coming  as  a  reactant  in. So  we  have  the  liquid  propane. So  we  have  c3hh  eight. And  then,  that's  going  to  be times  u  f  plus  h  minus  uc3h. Eight.  What's  the  next  one? The  next  one  is  then  with  air. So  we  have  oxygen  there,  right. So  you're  going  to  have  an  n  02  again, times  H  F  naught  plus  minus  H naught  two  of  nitrogen, n  of  n2f naught  plus  minus  H  naught  two,  right? And  that's  everything  that's  entering. So  as  a  reactant, we  can  now  look  at  the  products, which  I  can  then  put  into  brackets, that's  going  to  be  subtracted. So  the  first  product  that  we  see, There  is  with  h2o, so  we  can  have  nh2o. F  naught  plus  minus  H  naught. H2o  plus  CO  two  n  CO  two  f naught  plus  minus  u  C  02. This  is  then  plus  and with  the  bottom  one  with  n two  as  if  we  were  doing nn2f  naught  plus  h minus  zero  and  n  two. I  can  keep  going  with  the  pluses  here. And  now  we  see  two  things, which  I  think  were  different  from what  we  had  before, which  is  that  we  see  oxygen, and  we  see  carbon  monoxide  also on  the  product  side. Does  anyone  understand  why  that  could  be? Say  it  again.  Incomplete  combustion,  exactly. So  you  can  have  carbon monoxide  that's  there  if  it's an  incomplete  combustion  process. So  we  could  right  here  then  N  CO, HF  naught  p  n  zero,  CO. And  then  our  final  one  is  then  oxygen. So  N  02,  H  F  naught  p  minus  h02.  All  right. So  that's  kind  of  a  lot  that's  going  on, but  really  it's  just  coming  from right  this  summation  and  just  keeping track  of  reactants  and  products. All  right.  Maybe  I'll  use  purple.  For  this. So,  the  number  of moles  that  we  have  here entering  with  this.  This  is  one. So  we  have  one  kilomole  with  that. With  the  two  entering,  we  have  7.5. Kilomole  for  the  two  for  the  nitrogen, we  have  28.2  kilomole. And  now  moving  on  to  the  products. So  the  product  I  have  here, C  02,  I  have  2.7. Kilomole  for  CO  two  for  CO. I  have  0.3. So  I  have  0.3  kilomole for  CO.  Fh2o  in  the  product, I  have  four  I  have  four  kilomole  for  that. For  the  02  in  the  product, I  have  2.65,  kilomole. And  then  for  the  N  two  in  the  product, I  have  28.2  kilomole  with  that. So  in  the  first  one.  So  if  in  reality, the  way  you  would  do  this, you'd  measure.  You'd  measure  this. You'd  basically  do  I  don't  know,  spectroscopy on  the  outlet  gases  there, and  you  would  look,  I  mean, if  you  take  also  your  car internal  combustion  car  and you  go  and  get  it  checked  for, like,  exhaust,  you  can  look  at what's  leaving. In  the  first  example  there, we  had  a  complete  combustion  process. So  from  that,  you  could  basically tabulate  and  go from  one  side  to  the  other  and say,  complete  combustion, I  have  this,  you  know, starting  on  the  left  hand  side, and  then  on  the  right  hand  side, I  get  those  products. For  something  like  this, you  would  need  to  be  given. And  in  this  problem,  you're  given you're  given  these  details. Right.  Other  questions?  All  right. Okay,  now,  let's  talk  about  some of  the  other  values,  right? So,  for  example,  the  excuse  me. We  need  to  deal  now  with with  some  of  these  Hs  and these  HO  HO  values  here. So  if  we  look  and  start, maybe  I'll  put  the  save  this  for  special. So  if  we  start  with  the left  hand  side  and  entering, so  we  can  look,  for  example, first  at  Air,  right, that  seven  degrees  Celsius is  280  Calvin,  right? So  if  we  look  at  the  280  Kelvin  case, so  we  have  the  oxygen,  and  we  have the  and  we  have  the  nitrogen. So  here  I'm  just  talking  about  H.  Right? This  is  the  H  essentially  that  would be  here  and  the  H  that's  here. So  that  H  for,  let's  say,  for  N  two, At  this  temperature  is  81, 41  kilojoules  per  kilomole. The  14  oxygen  is  then  equal  to 815  oh  kilojoules  per  kilomole. So  this  is  is  basically done  and  and  done  there. If  we  look  at  the  1,500  Kelvin. Okay.  So  let's  move  now  to  1,500  Kalvin. So  what's  exiting  in  the  1,500? We  have  five  different  enthalpies  there. So  if  we  speak  first  about  H  two,  All  right, This  is  49292  kilos  per  kilomole. All  right. The  next  one  that  I  have  is  for  nitrogen, so  hn24  773  kilos  per Kilomole.  I  have  the  h2o, which  is  then  on  the  product  side  is 57999  kilojoules  per  per  kilomole. I  have  the  H  of  CO  two  at  1,500  that's 7178  kilos  per  kilomole. And  then  I  have  the  H  of  carbon  menoxide, which  is  47517  kilos  per  kilomole,  right? So  what  did  we  take  care  of  now? So  we're  speaking  about  the  hot  sides. That's  each  one  of  these  Hs that's  here,  right? With  the  with  the  exhaust. So  that's  all  that's  all  good. And  the  H  F  values  I  already  wrote  for  the  R, for  the  first  problem,  right? So  the  liquid  propane,  right? We  had  determined  that in  the  previous  problem. All  right,  for  for  the  HF. The  oxygen,  it  was  the  same  way. The  nitrogen,  we  also  did. Again,  nitrogen,  the  same  here. CO  two,  we  had  also  done  before. Water  we  had  done  before,  carbon  monoxide, and  oxygen,  we  had  all  done  before. So  the  last  thing  that I  see  remaining  are  then our  H  O  values,  which  just  to  remind  you, those  are  the  enthalpies  of  the  substances, but  they're  taken  at  25  degrees Celsius  and  1  atmosphere. So  just  to  bring  it  home  with  this, and  then  I  can  finish  up the  problem  on  Friday. So  we're  speaking  now  about  H U  H  O.  All  right. And  then  this  first  applies  for  oxygen. So  I  have  H  naught  for 02  as  being  equal  to  8682, and  I'm  just  going  to  write up  here  that  this  is  all  in kilojoules  per  kilo  mole to  save  a  bit  of  time. So  that's  what  I  have  for  this.  I  have my  H  naught,  n  two, which  is  8669h  naught  h2o  is  equal  to  9904, H  naught  CO  two  is  equal  to  9364. And  then  I  have  my  H  naught  CO, which  is  equal  to  8669.  All  right. So  the  CO,  D  02  done  N  two  done  CO  two  done, h2o  done,  02  is  done  and  N  two
