I 1  second,  1  second. We  can  talk  after  class.  All  right. Yeah. Okay. I'm  going  to  get  started.  So  today, we're  going  to  continue with  our  entropy  analysis. Why  is  this? Better?  Better.  Okay.  So  we'll continue  with  that.  Learning  objectives. After  today,  you'll  be  able  to  apply the  general  entropy  balance  now to  heat  exchanger  and  also  a  nozzle. Okay?  But  first,  let's see  where  you're  at  and  your understanding  of  this. So  you're  given  the  following  experiments. We  have  a  container  here, which  is  kept  at  300  Kelvin in  contact  with  the  reservoir. The  initial  pressure  is  1  bar, substance  is  air.  You  have  1  kilogram. So  you  know  the  mass.  And  you  also  know the  specific  gas  constant  in kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. This  is  connected  to  another  container which  is  initially  evacuated,  right? So  it  is  zero  bar  of  pressure, and  you  have  this  as  a  volume,  all  right? This  is  also  kept  at  300  Kelvin, and  then  you  open  this  valve,  all  right? And  the  question  is,  what  is  the  change  in entropy  after  you  open the  valve  and  this  system  goes  equilibrium, okay? So  take  5  minutes, look  it  through,  and  let's see  if  we  understand  this  very  well. If  we  don't,  we'll  go  through  it  again, and  we'll  do  another  repetition  after  that. Any  questions  before  we  get started?  Okay,  let's  go. Okay. Did  it  work? Yeah. I Questions, questions. Questions.  How  are  we  doing? How  are  we  doing? Good.  All  good.  We're  here  to do  Questions. Question  does not  work Okay. The  bar  is  100,000  Pascals. Your  Honor. All  right. Let's  go  through  it.  So  here, I'm  looking.  I  have  negatives. I  have  zeros.  Okay. We're  all  on  different  sides. It  looks  like  we  have  a  consensus  at 0.25  in  kilojoules  per  kilogram. I  have  another  one  at  -25. 25.  Okay. All  right,  so  let's start  with  the  sign  of  this. Is  this  a  reversible? Would  you  consider  this  to  be  a  process that  could  be  reversed  easily? Like  pop  a  balloon? No.  Okay?  So  this  is  not  reversible. And  so  what's  your  expectation then  if  it's  not reversible  on  the  change  in  entropy  here? Say  it  again.  It's  positive,  right? So  you  have  an  expectation  that this  Delta  S  during this  process  should  be  greater  than  zero, and  that  holds  for  anything  spontaneous. So  any  process  that  you  look  at that  happens  spontaneously,  right? Like  heat  spreading,  perfume  diffusing, you  know,  balloons  popping. These  are  spontaneous  processes, and  in  that  case,  you'd  have an  expectation  that the  entropy  is  increasing. Okay,  that's  one  part  of  it. How  did  you  so  let's  see. Um,  We  can  talk now  about  the  control  volume  here. So  if  we  get  to  this,  all  right? So  we  have  this  valve  here,  right? This  is  connected,  right? We  essentially  have  the  control  volume, which  is  initially  this,  right? And  then  a  control  volume, which  after  expansion,  right, this  expands,  essentially  becomes  like  this. All  right. So  how  do  we  set  the  problem  up? Front  row  here.  Comments. Ortho.  How  did  you  set  this  up? No  setup.  Next  row.  Next  row  up. You  guys  on  the  left, how  did  you  guys  set  it  up? Yes,  you. What  enable.  Next  row, three  here.  Nothing  four. Chylor  State  one. So  Ss  the  left  box,  right? This  is  this  control  volume. And  what  do  you  know  at  state  one? You  know  the  pressure, you  know  the  temperature, and  you  know  the  mass,  okay? And  so  what  does  this  mean?  V  one. Good.  And  from  that  you  can get  actual  volume,  right?  V  one.  Okay. And  what  about  state  two?  So  that's the  let's  call  this  box  on  the  right, maybe  let's  call  it  maybe  two,  right? So  this  is  two. So  then  basically  volume  at  state two  is  equal  to  V  one  plus, let's  say  V  Roman  numeral  two,  right? Okay.  What  else  do  you  know  at  state  two? T  two  is  equal  to  T  one.  It's  isothermal. It's  in  contact  with the  thermal  reservoir,  right? So  you  keep  it  there. This  is  what  Jewel  did,  right? He  was  doing  experiments or  he  was  doing  that. Okay.  And  next,  Is this  enough  information  to  know  that  though? So  if  I  just  have  V  two  and  I  have T  two,  is  that  enough  or  no? Is  volume  an  extensive  or  intensive  property? Yeah.  So  then  little  V  two  is equal  to  big  V  two  divided  by  M. And  if  I  know  little  V  two  and  I  know  T  two, what  are  you  able  to  determine  with  Pi  color? So  you  use  Pi  color  to  get  what  here? Right?  So  you  get  a  little  S  two. Okay.  All  right, and  talk  to  me  then  about  state  one. So  basically,  presumably,  if you  use  Pi  Klor  for this  at  state  one, then  you  know  P one  and  T  one,  this  is  of  error. And  so  let's  say inferring  from  what  you  knew  here, then  you  knew  S  one  here,  right? Okay.  And  so  now  Delta. So  talk  to  me  about  that.  ST  two. So  the  change  in  the  entropy, let's  say  of  basically  the  right  of our  control  volume  is  equal to  big  S  two  minus  big  S  one, so  the  entropy  at  state two  minus  the  entropy  at  state  one. And  so  how  do  we  set  this  up  for  S two?  Just  talk  me  through  it. I  don't  know  anything.  But  this  is  big. P  is  not  going  to  give  you  a  big  mass. You  have  little  M  mass  times  S  two  minus. Let's  see  it. Okay.  And  what's  our  mass? We  can  substitute.  So  the  mass  is  1  kilogram. And  for  two,  what  did  you  have  for  S  two? Did  you  have  a  number  or  no? Did  anyone  have  a  number  for  State  two? 0.22. Not  that  I  can  go  to  the  fifth  row. You  got  it?  No,  not  the  fifth. Okay.  4.11.  And  what  are  the  units? Kilogram  Kelvin  and  then  that's  subtracted by  someone  help  him  out  here. He's  like,  he's  carrying  all  the  weight  that kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. And  then  if  we  multiply  that  through, I  have  this  as  0.22  kilojoules  per Kelvin,  Delta  S  CV. All  right? If  you  have  other  questions, you  can  ask  Chandler. Okay.  Cool.  Any,  seriously, any  questions  about  this  approach? Anything  that's  unclear  in  the  steps we  took  the  done. Yeah.  So  I  think  63,  yeah. So  zero  we  addressed,  right? This  is  a  spontaneous  process. We  have  that  expansion. So  immediately  when  you  see  things  like  that, you  should  automatically  expect increases  in  entropy,  okay? The  other  cue  to  this,  right, and  we  could  get  into  it  with the  temperature  changes  is  that  this isn't  a  thermal  bath,  right? If  I  take  gas  and  I  expand  it, do  you  think  the  temperature  goes  up  or  down? Up  or  down.  Alex,  right? Okay.  Does  it  go  up  or  down? If  I  expand  the  gas,  do  you expect  the  temperature  to  go  up or  down.  Down.  Why? Yeah,  so  it's  not unreasonable  to  think  that the  temperature  would  drop. If  that  temperature  drops and  it's  in  something,  right, that  was  initially  at  a  temperature, and  I  have  a  temperature  drop, you're  going  to  experience  heat  transfer. You'd  expect  heat  to  be  transferred then  from  the  thermal  bath  into  the  system. That's  also,  like,  a  thing  to be  thinking  about,  okay? And  these  types  of  problems, so  we'll  have  other  ones  that, you  know,  that  might  appear  in  a  quiz or  might  appear  on  a  final  exam. This  is  like  a  classic  one. Um,  is,  again,  it's  usually  with  air. So  we're  deal  with  air,  right? We're  dealing  with  ideal  gases. And  so,  right,  we  solved all  of  this  with  Pi  color, but  you  can  also  remember, is  there  a  question? Okay.  Let's  see.  You  know, you  knew  there  was  a  Picor. I  consider  that  to  be  very  straightforward, but  you  could  also  look  at your  TDS  relations,  right? Remember,  we  wrote  out those  formulas  relating  changes in  entropy  to  things like  temperature  and  pressure, pressure  and  specific  volume  or specific  volume  and  pressure  there. That's  also  a  totally  valid  approach, but  you  got  to  still  do  the  same  thing. You  still  got  to  determine,  right, the  specific  volume  here  at  state  two. You'd  have  to  know the  specific  volume  at  state  one. You  need  to  know  the  temperature  at state  two  and  the  temperature  at  state  one. That's  also  a  totally  valid  way  to  go through  and  solve  this  problem. So  really,  the  key  is just  getting  the  states. Here,  it's  really  all  about  the  states, getting  to  the  change  in  entropy. And  then  it's  just  M  times  that  will give  you  the  change  in entropy,  the  control  volume. Or  you  can  go  that  route, like  I  said,  with  the  TDS  relations. Again,  you  still  need  to know  essentially  those  properties, determine  the  properties,  plug and  shug  and  you  get  it,  all  right? So  it's  kind  of  confusing, but  I  think  once  you've done  this  a  couple  of  times, you'll  look  at  it  and immediately  know  how  to  react,  okay? Great.  If  there's no  other  questions  about  that, all  right,  one  more  time. And  then  we'll  go  through  some  fun  stuff. Then  we'll  set  up  for  basically  next  week. In  track,  we  call  these  repeats. They're  painful,  but  it's  how  you  get  fast. Great.  So  in  this  problem, before  I  launch  it,  let  me  set  it  up. So  this  is  the  heat  exchanger  problem. This  is  not  the  first  time you've  seen  this,  okay? Literally  not  the  first  time you've  seen  this. So  what  you  have  here  is steam  that's  entering  into a  heat  exchanger  at  this  temperature,  right? And  it's  exiting  at  this  temperature  here, and  you  have  this  mass  flow  rate in  kilograms  per  hour  of  it,  right? That  steam  is  heating  air. Air  is  coming  in  at  20  degrees  Celsius. It's  exiting  at  30  degrees  Celsius. And  you're  given  also  the  properties, so  you  don't  have  to  do  PICOor  for  this. You  know  the  specific  enthropy and  specific  entropy  of the  steam  entering  and  exiting. You're  also  given  the  specific  heat of  air.  You  have  three  questions. The  first  is  what's  the  heat  transfer  rate from  the  steam  to  the  air? So  that's  a  Q  dot  out. What's  the  Q  dot  out from  the  steam  to  the  air? What  is  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  air,  okay? And  what  is  the  rate  of  entropy  generation? Now,  to  make  this  work, the  one  assumption  that you  have  to  make  is  that the  outside  of  this  heat  exchanger is  adiabatic. I  do  not  have  heat  exchange  happening from  the  environment  to  the  heat  exchanger. I  only  have  heat  exchange  happening between  the  steam  and  the  air,  okay? This  one  should  be  straightforward, you  know,  for  you. I  would  say  it's  already launched.  Go  through  it. I  said  10  minutes,  but,  you  know, maybe  a  little  bit  less. We'll  talk  through  that  one. And  then  at  this  stage,  after you've  done  this  one,  you've  seen,  like, the  two  types  of  NP  problems  I  can  ask, one  in  the  closed  system, one  in  the  open  system. And  from  that  understanding, you  should  be  able  to generalize  that  to  either  of  the  cases,  okay? Questions?  All  right. Round  two.  Let's  go. And  don't  make  me ask  Chandler  again,  alright? So I  have  a  question  for  the  first  one. So  when  you  say  heat  transfer  rates, are  we  talking  about  steam  here?  Yeah. So  I  said  the  got  out  from  the  steam. So  basically  transfer  from the  steam  to  the  air. Okay.  But  we're  referencing the  difference  in  temperature  in  the  steam. So  am  I  taking  35  -32 or  If  you  knew the  specific  heat  of  water,  yes. Oh,  I  don't  have  that. What  are  you  given  about water?  Go  and  what  else? What  is  the  blue  table  there? Oh,  that's  for  the  water.  State  one, position  one,  position  two, one  and  two  around  there. Yeah  order  of  magnitude  you  even  find. So  is  that  actually  erase? That's  amazing.  Oh,  man, technology.  Other  questions? No,  that's  it. Yeah,  you're  on  the  right  track  though. We'll  go  to  the  age. Okay. It's  formulas  that  are  looking  good  there. I  like  that.  Any  questions? No.  Okay.  All  right. All  good. Calculations. Questions. All  good.  All  good. I'm  coming  for  this  side of  the  wood  next  guy. Okay.  Questions?  No.  It  would be  a  Q  and  Q  out,  right? Like  the  heat  transfer  would  be the  net  of  the  Q  and  Q  out,  or  is  that? That's  an  interesting  question. So  I've  drawn  two  control  volumes there.  So  what  are  you  doing? I  mean,  what  is  this  system  doing? I  guess  transferring  heat  between  the  two. That's  it,  right?  Yes.  So  where  do  you  think the  matching  is  going  to  happen between  the  two  control  volumes? You're  there.  Well,  I guess  the  rate  of heat  would  be  going  out  of  one  system. That's  it. And  what's  the  net  heat  transfer  though? So  net  means  that  I'm  going  to  draw down  the  entire  control  volume  CV  102. It's  good.  And  then  for  the  second  one. Questions.  How  do  you  do  SN? Because  we  don't  have  S  three. Well,  we're  not  supposed  to  be  using  PC. You  can  use  PC. Oh,  I I  got. Did  I  do  it  wrong?  I  think  I  did it  divided  by  it. Shouldn't  it  be  divided  by  this? Yeah,  it's  650  divided by  I'm  going  to  be  nice  is  so  good. So  what  is  CP  Delta  T  then  for  air? So  if  I  take  C  Delta  T,  what's  Yeah. It  changes  in  angle.  So  you see  Delta  T  because that's  a  change  in  angle  there  you're  right. And  so  to  make  it  into  rate  format, what  is  the  thing  that  actually  depends  on time  in  the  heating  process? Like  is  the  air  static  or is  the  air  flowing  into  the  heat  flow? It's  flowing.  So  how  do we  describe  that  flowing? Simple  if  you  had  to measure  the  rate  air  is  entering  into the  control  dot  time si  Delta  is  then going  to  be  the  rate  you  transfer. That's  good.  I  get  dimensional  analysis. That's  the  first  place  you  should  dimensions. Here  kilogram  per  hour kilograms  turns out wonder  Okay, so  I  would  say  submit and  then  we  can  start  to  discuss. Are  you  serious?  Oh,  my  God. I  did  open  it,  but  then  it  closed. Thank  you  for  telling  me. Next  time,  tell  me  sooner. A  y,  y.  Apologies,  everyone.  All  right. We'll  take  another  minute  or  two and  K.  It's  killing  me. Strategy.  Like  in  soccer, let  me  go.  All  right. I All  right. One  more  response, and  then  I  can  start  talking. Killing  me.  There  we  go. Wait,  two?  How  did  five  become  two? Oh,  my  God.  All  right. Cool.  So  first  one, we  have  basically  a  consensus  around  5,000, which  I  have  as  Yes,  close  to  5,000. This  should  be  67  6,000,  right? So  Q  dot  The  Q  dot  out  from  state  one  to  two, I  have  as  6,751  kilowatts. This  side  of  the  room  up  here, how  did  you  guys  approach  this? Of  which  control  volume  here? Okay.  Sorry,  it's  CV. It's  the  green.  I  messed  with  you. I  went  green  and  then  here. Okay.  Yeah. I  a  plug  and  chug. Okay.  So  this  is  good  and  this  M  dot  is  what? I  guess  it's  more  conceptual. So  here  we're  dealing  with mass  flouid  the  steam that's  entering  into  the  control  volume. I  can  call  that  maybe I'll  call  it  M  dot  W  for  water. So  we  have  the  mass  fluorid  of  the  water, and  then  this  is  the  Q  dot. This  is  basically  Q  dot  out. 1-2,  right? Or  what  I  could  say  is  control  volume, right,  control  volume  one. So  I  have  Q  dot  out. Let's  say  if  control  volume one  is  equal  to  the  MDOT  of the  steam  entering  into the  control  volume  here  times  the  enthalpy, at  state  one  entering  minus the  specific  enthalpy  at state  two  when  it  exits,  okay? That  should  be  clear.  You  did quiz  one.  That's  enough,  right? And  so  from  this,  right, we  have  6,751  kilowatts, and  that  match  is  there. Any  questions  about  this? Cool.  What's  the  mass  flow  rate  of  error? Next  row.  Maya? No,  next  to  you,  he  raised  his  hand. Good.  It's  a  good  partner. 671.  Can  you  take  me  through  your  process? What  was  your  logic  to  get  to  that? Q  dot  is  equal  to  M  dot  times  what? Cp  of  error  times Delta  T.  What's  your  Delta  T  here? Talk  to  me  like  I  know  nothing. So  30  degrees  centigrade, that's  T  four,  okay,  minus  T  three. And  so  this  is  applying  then  to control  volume  one,  right? This  basically  applies  to  CV  one  here. So  this  would  then  be  q.in,  right, q.in  for  control  volume two  here,  right?  So  q.in. So  the  heat  from  this  is  a  mess, but  the  heat  from  the  steam  into  the  air is  equal  to  the  M  dot  of  the  air, CP  and  Delta  T.  And  then  what  do  you  do? How  do  I  get  to  the  mass  flow  of  the  air? So  I  have  dot  is  equal  to  q.in  control  volume two  divided  by  cp  times T  four  minus  T  three.  Okay. What  is  q.in  two,  though? Yeah,  so  the  assumption that  you  have  to  make  then  in this  analysis  is  the  heat  transferred  into the  CB  two  is equal  to  the  heat  transferred out  of  that,  right? So  that  means  the  Q  dot  out  of  control  volume one  is  equal  to q.in  of  control  volume  two,  right? That's  the  insight.  So  this  then, you  would  plug  into  here, T  four  and  T  three, you  know,  and  you  have  CPA. And  you  told  me  that  you  had an  M  dot  arrow  of  what's  your  dot  r? 671  kilograms/second. Okay.  I  have  a  hand  in  the  back.  Yes,  please. So  that's  interesting. So  when  we  deal  with things  like  the  ideal  gas  law, we  have  to  work  in  Kelvin,  okay? When  we  work  in  changes  in  temperature, a  one  degree  change  in Kelvin  is  the  same  as a  one  degree  change  in  Celsius. So  it's  within  your  rights  to  do  changes  in degrees  Celsius  or  changes  in  degree  Kelvin, but  please  do  not  mix  them. All  right?  But  that's  a  good  question. Other  questions  about  this? He  has  671.  I  have  I  will  check  myself  later, but  I  have  55  9  kilograms/second  for  mine. But  that  could  be  because  in  my  solution, I  didn't  use  CP  Delta  T,  okay? What  I  use  in  my  solution. So  an  alternative  solution  to  this  is  what? Don't  make  me  a  Chandler. David,  what's  an  alternative  solution? Instead  of  doing  CP  Delta  T  for  air  here? What  is  CP  Delta  T  an  approximation  of for  air  or  an  ideal  gas  like  air  up  here? Change  in  enthalpy,  right? So  I  have  a  change  in enthalpy  here,  and  right, this  is  equal  then  to  specific  key  times the  change  in  temperature,  right? And  that's  by  definition,  right? That's  for  the  air. That's  exactly  right,  okay?  But  the  point is  that  you  could  use  also  Pi  Klor to  you  could  also  determine the  enthalpies  at  these  states. What  kind  of  an  assumption  would I  make  in  order  to  get my  enthalpy  at  state three  and  state  four  for  air? I  give  temperature, what  would  you  have  to  guess  at? Now,  it's  one  piece  of  information. What's  another  piece  of information  that  you  as a  good  cow  engineer  might  hazard a  guess  at  for  air as  the  second  property  that  you  know. The  what?  Quality  of  air. The  quality  of  air, there  is  no  quality  of  air unless  we  do  cryogenic,  right? Then  it  could  be  fun. Come  to  my  lab  if  you want  to  see  a  quality  of  air. Okay.  Pre  Pressure.  Thank  you. Pressure.  You  know,  basically this  and  what  would  you  say  is  the  pressure? 1  atmosphere,  right? 10132  5  pascals  or  something  like  that. And  from  this,  you  could  also  get  to enthalpy  three  and  enthalpy  four  for  the  air, okay?  That's  another  approach. Totally  valid  can  be  done,  okay? So  Delta  Ts  in  that,  all  right? So  it  looks  like  with either  we  were  on  either, you  know,  this  is  671  or  559. So  the  correct  answer  with selecting  on  this  should  be  at  500. It  seems  to  have  consensus. Questions  about  this?  If  not,  our  last  part. And  here  we  are  everywhere. Awesome.  Totally  awesome. That's  going  to  be  fun. Okay,  so  let's  move  this  here. All  right,  so  for  this  final  part,  all  right? We're  going  to  do,  we're  going  to  do an  entropy  analysis  of  this,  all  right? Maya,  you  good?  Should  I  hand  it  back? Back.  Melanie?  No.  David,  et  al. Did  you  guys  have  an  approach  for  this? Equal  to  ds  is  equal  to  dq  times  T. Other  thoughts? So  when  we  did  this  before, when  we  analyzed this  identical  problem  before, how  did  we  approach  it? So  once  we  determined  everything  about control  volume  one  and  control  volume  two, what  did  we  do  then  when  we did  the  entropy  analysis? Here.  Okay,  let's  do  that. So  here,  we  have a  state  one,  state  two,  state  three, state  four,  that's  shown. And  so  what  we  can  say, for  one,  State  one, we  knew  we  knew  the  steam  temperature. So  we  knew  basically  T  one. Here,  what  else  is  given? Remind  me  again.  Here, I'll  look  at  my  notes  here, which  are  a  little  bit  different. I  have  here.  I  have  to  look  back. Apologies  for  a  second. I  need  to  see  what  I  actually  wrote  here. We  have  this.  Yeah,  exactly. For  State  one,  we  have one  which  was  given  in  the  problem. And  for  State  two,  we're  also  given  S  two. Let's  jump  back  to  this. And  what  about  State  three  and  four? I  have  a  question.  If  you  have  no  question. So  we  say  P  three  and  P  four  are basically  atmospheric  atmospheric  pressure. And  what  else  do  you know  about  three  and  four? You  know,  T  three,  which  is  equal to  20  degrees  C, and  you  know  T  four,  which  is  then  equal to  30  degrees  C,  right? And  then  from  this,  you  can spike  Klor  and  you  can  get  S  three, or  from  this,  you  could get  S  four  there,  okay? But  this  is  a  little  bit  in  reverse,  right? So  now  I  basically  have  properties. But  what  I'm  asking  more  about  is, how  I  actually  analyze  the  system. In  the  back  there?  Is  that a  stretch  or  a  stretch.  Okay. Are  you  stretch  now?  Good.  All  right. All  right,  so  what  we  have  from  David is  ds  is  dQ divided  by  T.  Here  in  the  front? Can  we  split  it  into  two  parts  where  we generated  entropy  for  state one  to  two  plus  three  to  four. So  you  want  to  do  so  talk  to  me  through  that. So  we're  going  to  split  it.  We're  going  to write  with  CV  one. What  are  we  going  to  write? The  Delta  S  is  equal to  minus  S  one  minus  S  two. All  right.  And  what's  S  one? 8.5. So  is  this  little  S  or  big  S? Flow  rate  was  10,000. I  just  talking  to  me  variable. So  I  have  an  M  dot,  and  M  dot  times  what? Times  one  minus  r. Okay.  And  this  applies  then  for the  water,  so  we'll  put  a  water. Is  this  dimensionally  the  same  as  Delta  S? I  So,  this  is  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. This  is  kilograms  per  second,  right? If  I  put  this  together,  I  have  kilojoules per  kelvin  per  second. So  what  should  this  be? Instead  of  Delta  S, this  should  be  dot,  right? So  the  ds  control  volume, dt  would  then  be  equal to  the  entropy  entering  my  system, the  entropy  exiting,  and  what  else? David. Could  do  that.  Okay.  So  now we're  going  to  broaden  it. So  we're  not  going  to  talk about  CV  one  anymore. Let's  merge  the  systems.  All  right. So  let's  merge  the  systems. Because  I'm  merging  them,  all  right? Let's  my  drawing  will  maybe  be  better, all  right?  All  right. So  I  have  this,  I  have  in,  I  have  out. And  let's  say  I  have  right. I  think  this  was  actually  the  in. This  is  the  out,  State  one, State  two,  State  three,  State  four. I'm  going  to  draw  one  control  volume  around the  entire  thing  the combined  CV  one  and  CV  two. This  is  CV  one  plus  two? Good.  We'll  come  back  to  my  here. This  is  the  rate  of  change  of  entropy  in control  volume  one  plus two.  This  is  equal  to. All  right.  I  Right? This  is  equal  to  the  rate  of  entropy in  minus  the  rate of  entropy  transferred  out,  plus  what? Is  entropy  conserved? What  does  that  mean  then? So  what  would  you  expect  then  in  this  term? A  generative  term,  right? We  live  in  an  age  of  generative,  okay? Dot  gen,  okay? S  dot  gen,  all  right? So  now  we  have  our  formula  here,  right? So  this  is,  again,  our  ds,  dt, control  volume  one  plus  control  volume  two, s.in  minus  S  dot  out, plus  dot  g.  Building  on  what  we  had  up  here, so  we  have  the  dot  water times  one,  which  is  entering. What  else  is  entering into  this  control  volume? What's  the  other  fluid  stream  entering? The  steam. This  is  steam.  So  dot  air,  right? Air.  And  that's  at  state  three. So  that's  little  S  three,  okay? And  that's  minus  what's  exiting? So  what's  exiting? Steam  State  two. State  two.  And  the  air  at  state  four,  okay? And  that's  plus  dot  gen.  All  right. Okay.  Now,  this  is  a  steady  flow  process. So  what  does  it  mean  for  the  rate of  change  of  entropy  in the  control  volume?  Zero,  right? So,  if  this  is  steady,  this  is  gone. And  what  you  do  is  you  move  all of  that  to  the  left  hand  side,  right? So  dot  gen  is  equal  to  m  dot  water, times  two  plus  dot air  times  four  plus  a  negative  dot W  times  one  minus m  dot  air  times  S  three,  okay? We  can  reorganize  that,  right? We  can  say  dot  w  times  S  two  minus  one plus  dot  air  times  four  minus  little  S  three, and  that's  dot  gen,  right? So  that's  your  formula  for dot  gen.  One  and  two, we  know  M  dot  water  was  a  given, M  dot  air  we determined  four  and  three  then,  right? You  would  have  from  what  I  wrote  here,  right? So  you  would  have  S  three  and  S four  from,  let's  say  PycLor. You  would  put  that  in  and  you'd  get  a  value. All  right.  And  the  value that  I  have  here  is  0.662 kilowatts  per  Kelvin  is dot  gen  which  was  18%. So  the  minority.  So  talk  to  that  18%,  Maya. I  mean,  I  have  a  very  loud  noise  out  here. I  don't  know  what  it  is  in  my  ear. So  this  is  a  great  question. This  is  a  great  question. It  could  take  into account  other  changes  like  that, but  it  would  show  up  in changes  of  the  entropy  leaving  the  system. So  if  we  had  additional  things happening  like  maybe  mixing. So  instead  of  maybe  transferring  just  heat, maybe  we  also  mix  the  fluid streams  and  they  exited, that  would  show  up  then  in  changes  of the  entropy  that's  at  the  exits  there,  right? But  this  analysis  holds. So  if  I  don't  have heat  transferred  in  or  out, if  the  entire  heat  exchange  is diabatic  from  the  outside,  right? I'm  not  doing  any  kind  of, you  know,  work  and  stuff  with  it. I  just  have  a  fluid  stream, fluid  streams  in,  fluid  streams  out  there. All  you  have  to  look  at  is the  inlets  and  the  outlets and  the  mass  flow  rates,  right? And  you  say,  I'm  steady, and  this  works,  okay? So  it's  a  generalized  thing.  Yes,  please? Well,  here's  the  thing. It's  a  heat  exchanger. So  if  I  know  the  pressure  of  three, what  do  I  say  about  four? What's  the  assumption  we  have  about a  heat  exchange  when  it comes  to  pressure  drops? There  is  no  pressure  drop across  a  heat  exchanger,  right? So  if  I  know  P  three,  I  would  know  P four  here,  okay?  Other  questions? Yes,  please.  Why  are  we  adding  SGen? That's  a  beautiful  segue. It's  almost  like  you  set  me  up  on  this,  okay? The  point  is  that  why  we  determine SGen  is  going  to tell  us  when  we  analyze  systems, how  reversible  we  are,  okay? It's  going  to  tell  us  how  close we  are  to  maximum  performance. If  I  have  systems  with a  lot  of  entropy  generation, it  means  I'm  actually  destroying like  the  potential  to  do  work  in  my  system. So  where  we're  going  to  go  next  time  in next  lecture  is  I'm going  to  define  a  quantity. Let's  call  it  X,  right, not  because  Elon  thermo had  the  letter  first,  right? So  we're  going  to  talk  about  X  dot. This  kind  of  mysterious  variable is  going  to  be  equal  to  dot  gen, and  then  it's  going  to  be  times some  temperature,  all  right? And  at  this  point,  the  whole  reason  for this  analysis  will  become  clear,  right? But  for  now,  what  you  need to  know  is  that  if  you  have a  lot  of  entropy  generation  in  your  system, it  means  it's  not  working  very  well,  right? Or  it's  not  working  towards basically  its  maximum  potential. It  means  as  an  engineer, you  should  go  in  and  look  at those  systems  and  say, there's  opportunities  to  improve,  okay? So  that's  why  we  bother  with computing  SGN.  All  right. And  remember, the  whole  reason  why  we  went  into entropy  is  because  when I  do  this  final  analysis, I  don't  need  to,  like, go  between  work  and  heat. If  I  have  a  work  process,  right, and  it  behaves  as  best  as  it  can, there's  no  entropy  exchange from  the  system,  right? It's  isentropic  there,  okay? If  it's  not  isentropic, we  can  still  compute  those  changes in  entropy  from  there. When  I  do  heat  exchanges  like I'm  doing  here  between  the  fluid  streams, it  shows  up  and  changes  in  entropy. So  everything's  on  a  level  playing  field, all  right? I  know  it's  kind  of  maybe a  little  weird  and  difficult, but  the  point  is,  like,  with entropy,  we  understand  that,  right? And  from  that  we  can  get  to  this  term. And  what  I'm  telling  you  for  the  next two  lectures  is  it's  simply determine  gen  times  it  by  a  temperature.
