Okay.  I'm  going  to  get  started. So  today,  we're  going  to  continue with  our  entropy  analysis. Why  is  this  like? Better?  Better.  Okay.  So  we'll continue  with  that.  Learning  objectives. So  after  today,  you'll  be  able  to  apply the  general  entropy  balance  now to  heat  exchanger  and  also  a  nozzle. Okay?  But  first,  let's see  where  you're  at  and your  understanding  of  this. So  you're  given  the  following  experiment. We  have  a  container  here, which  is  kept  at  300  Kelvin in  contact  with  the  reservoir. The  initial  pressure  is 1  bar,  substance  is  air. You  have  1  kilogram.  So  you  know  the  mass, and  you  also  know the  specific  gas  constant  in kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. This  is  connected  to  another  container, which  was  initially  evacuated,  right? So  it  is  zero  bar  of  pressure, and  you  have  this  as  a  volume,  all  right? This  is  also  kept  at  300  Kelvin, and  then  you  open  this  valve,  all  right? And  the  question  is,  what  is  the  change  in entropy  after  you  open the  valve  and  this  system  goes  equilibrium, okay? So  take  5  minutes, look  it  through,  and  let's see  if  we  understand  this  very  well. If  we  don't,  we'll  go  through  it  again, and  we'll  do  another  repetition  after  that. Any  questions  before  we  get  started? Okay,  let's  go.  Problem.  This  is not  the  first  time  you've  seen  this,  okay? Literally  not  the  first  time you've  seen  this. So  what  you  have  here is  steam  that's  entering  into a  heat  exchanger  at  this  temperature,  right? And  it's  exiting  at  this  temperature  here, and  you  have  this  mass  flow  rate in  kilograms  per  hour  of  it,  right? That  steam  is  heating  air. Air  is  coming  in  at  20  degrees  Celsius. It's  exiting  at  30  degrees  Celsius. And  you're  given  also  the  properties, so  you  don't  have  to  do  PICOor  for  this. You  know  the  specific  enthropy and  specific  entropy  of the  steam  entering  and  exiting. You're  also  given  the  specific  heat of  air.  You  have  three  questions. The  first  is  what's  the  heat  transfer  rate from  the  steam  to  the  air? So  it's  a  Q  dot  out. What's  the  Q  dot  out from  the  steam  to  the  air? What  is  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  air,  okay? And  what  is  the  rate  of entropy  generation,  all  right? Now,  to  make  this  work, the  one  assumption  that you  have  to  make  is  that the  outside  of  this  heat exchanger  is  adiabatic. So  I  do  not  have  heat  exchange happening  from  the  environment to  the  heat  exchanger. I  only  have  heat  exchange  happening between  the  steam  and  the  air,  okay? This  one  should  be  straightforward, you  know,  for  you. I  would  say  it's  already launched.  Go  through  it. I  said  10  minutes,  but,  you  know, maybe  a  little  bit  less. We'll  talk  through  that  one. And  then  at  this  stage,  after you've  done  this  one,  you've  seen,  like, the  two  types  of  N should  be  problems  I  can  ask, one  in  the  closed  system, one  in  the  open  system. And  from  that  understanding, you  should  be  able to  generalize  that  to  either  of  the  cases, okay?  Questions?  All  right. Round  two,  let's  go.
