Okay. It's  about  time,  so  I'd  like  to  start. So  Good  afternoon,  everyone. So  good  afternoon,  everyone. I'm  Karthik,  a  post from  Professor  Thomas  Suzi  group. I'm  his  long  term  collaborator for  the  past  five  years  or  so, starting  from  my  days  at  E  Zurich  Fitzn. So  today,  I  would  be  your  guest  lecturer, since  Profess  Suzi  is  away  for  another  work, and  I  would  be  dealing  with regenerative  and  reheat  ranking  cycles. So  after  today's  lecture, you  should  be  able  to  analyze the  regenerative  and  reheat  versions of  the  ideal  ranking  cycle, which  you  have  learned  in  the  last  class. Yeah.  Micro  Yeah,  it's  on. Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. So  today,  we  would  be  analyzing the  regenerative  and  reheat  ranking  cycles. So  if  you  actually  look  at the  ideal  ranking  cycle  on the  TS  diagram,  This  is  my  temperature. This  is  my  entropy,  and this  is  my  saturation  dome. In  the  first  process,  you actually  use  a  pump  to increase  the  pressure  of the  working  fluid,  which  is  water. And  then  you  start  adding heat  at  a  constant  pressure  in a  boiler  to  reach  at  a  state where  you  have  superheated steam,  which  is  state  three. And  then  you  actually expand  the  superheated  steam  in a  turbine  to  produce  some  work, which  is  at  state  four, and  then  you  use  a  condenser  to condense  this  saturated  steam back  to  saturated  liquid  again. So  this  is  your  ideal  rank  in  cycle. But  we  are  actually  looking  for  ways  to improve  the  total  work produced  in  this  ideal  rank  in  cycle. You  have  seen  that  if we  apply  the  first  law  of thermodynamics  for  each  of these  processes,  one,  22,  two, three,  three,  four,  and  four  to  one, you  get  the  heat  or  work interactions  with  the  first  law. Today,  we  will  take  a  different  approach, which  is  the  graphical  approach. So  we  basically  have  this  TS  diagram, and  we'll  see  if  we  can  estimate  the  work done  by  this  diagram itself  in  a  graphical  way. If  I  try  to  evaluate  The  area  under  the  plot, for  instance,  for  the  process  two  to  three. This  is  my  area, for  instance,  and  this  total  area is  by  definition  given by  integral  two  to  three  TD  yes. And  that  by  definition  of entropy  is  the  heat  transfer during  the  process  23, which  is  nothing  but  the  heat given  to  the  boiler. In  a  similar  fashion, if  I  try  to  estimate  the  area between  the  process  curve  f  one, you  would  get  a  similar  expression  process four  to  one,  integral  T  ds. That  is  the  heat  transfer  in  process  41, which  is  the  heat  rejected  in  the  condenser. Right? So  if  I  subtract  the  area  of this  condenser  process  from the  area  of  this  boiler  process, I  am  going  to  get  the  net heat  transfer  into  the  cycle, which  is  given  by  Qn  minus  Q. And  you  have  seen  in  the  previous  class that  the  net  heat  transfer to  the  cycle  is  equal  to the  net  work  output  from  the  cycle. Now,  what  does  this  signify? The  area  enclosed  by  the  processes  one,  two, 34  directly  gives  me the  net  work  output  from  the  ranking  cycle. So  if  I  have  to  increase the  work  output  from  my  ranking  cycle, I  look  for  ways  to  actually  increase the  area  of  this  process 1234  in  a  graphical  way. So  one  of  the  ways  to  improve the  work  done  in  rank  in  cycle  is  to basically  reduce  the  condenser  pressure at  which  we  are  operating. So  in  the  graph  there,  if  you  observe, if  we  lower  the  pressure  of the  condenser  41-4  dash  one  dash, my  area  under  the  curve  is  increasing, and  therefore,  I  get  more work  output  from  the  rank  in  cycle. Of  course,  one  could argue  that  we  are  increasing the  amount  of  work  done from  process  12  to  1-2  dash, I  have  more  work  to  be  given  to  the  pump. And  then  I  also  have  to  add an  additional  heat  from process  two  dash  to  two. So  I  have  more  heat  input and  also  more  work  input. But  the  amount  of  work  output I'm  getting  by  this  process  by  lowering the  condenser  pressure  is  much  more  than the  additional  inputs  of work  and  heat  I  have  to give  for  the  pump  and  the  boiler. So  therefore,  the  overall  efficiency  of the  cycle  improves  if I  lower  the  condenser  pressure. So  the  question  here  is,  like, what  is  the  lowest  value  of the  condenser  pressure  we  can  operate? Can  we  go  to  arbitrarily  low  values of  the  condenser  pressure, or  do  we  have  a  physical  limit to  which  we  can  operate or  condenser  pressure? And  the  answer  is,  it  depends  on the  working  fluid  we  use  for  the  condenser. Typically,  the  cooling  medium  we use  is  water  at  ambient  conditions, which  is  abundantly  available. This  water  is  at  say,  25  degrees  Celsius. So  that  is  the  water  which  you  are  going to  send  in  to  the  condenser, where  the  incoming  steam  from the  turbine  enters  the  condenser. So  if  the  efficiency  of heat  transfer  is  ideally  100%, Steam  condenses  back  to the  temperature  of  the  working fluid  which  you're  sending  in, which  is  25  degrees,  for  example. And  the  saturation  temperature, corresponding  to  that  particular temperature  would  be the  lowest  possible  pressure you  can  operate  to  your  condenser. You  cannot  go  below  that. Typically,  if  you  observe  the  values, this  would  be  about  30  millibar, which  is  well  below  the  atmospheric  pressure. But  in  recycle,  if we  operate  the  condenser below  the  atmospheric  pressure, we  have  a  problem  of air  leaking  into  the  system. But  that  is  easily  resolved  by sealing your  chamber  because  all  these  condensers, they  are  never  exposed  to  atmosphere  anyway. So  if  you  have  a  sealed  chamber, you  can  maintain  these  vacuum conditions  pretty  easily, and  we  always  operate  these  condensers at  pressures  well  below  the  atmosphere. Now  I  have  increased  the  work  output by  lowering  the  condenser  pressure, but  I  have  done  I  have  a  risk  with  that. If  you  look  at  the  state  four, which  is  the  exit  of  the  turbine, the  quality  of  the  steam  there  is  one. I'm  good.  But  if  I start  lowering  my  condenser  pressure, the  quality  of  the  steam  at  the  time where  it  reaches  the  condenser  is  pretty  low. It's  much  lower  than  one  at  four  dash. This  means  that  I'm risking  corrosion  in  my  turbine  lads, which  would  eventually  damage  and my  whole  system  arts. Therefore,  I  have  to  look for  ways  to  actually improve  the  quality  of the  steam  at  the  exit  of  turbine. And  one  easy  way  to  do  that  is basically  a  s.  Sorry. The  one  easy  way  to  do  that  is  to basically  superheat  your  steam  in  the  boiler. So  rather  than  expanding your  steam  from  state  three, you  can  add  more  heat  into the  boiler  and  superheat  the  steam  further, which  means  you  can  go  from  state three  to  state  three  dash,  right? And  therefore,  once  you start  expanding  entropically, you  reach  state  four  dash  instead  of  four, and  my  quality  of  four  dash is  better  than  quality  of  four. So  I've  resolved  this  issue  here. And  with  this  step, I'm  also  increasing  the  area  of  my  cycle. Again,  I'm  increasing the  work  output  from  the  cycle, and  I'm  increasing the  efficiency  of  the  cycle. Now,  this  superheating  process  3-3  dash. What  is  the  maximum  temperature  I can  reach  in  a  practical  setting. Can  I  heat  the  steam  to whatever  arbitrary  temperature  I  want? Again,  the  answer  is  no. The  upper  limit  of the  temperature  you  can  reach  is set  by  the  temperature which  the  turbine  blades  can  handle. And  typically,  this  is about  600  to  650  degrees Celsius  beyond  which the  turbine  blades  do  not  work. It  is  basically  a  material  constraint. Now,  let's  say  I  have  a  situation  where  I have  set  my  maximum  turbine  temperature, and  also  I  have  set my  lowest  condenser  pressure. And  in  this  condition, if  I  start  expanding  steam isentropically  from  state  three  to  four, if  I  always  end  up  with poor  quality  at  the  end  state, how  would  I  resolve  this  issue? For  that,  the  answer  is  reheating. So  rather  than  using  one  turbine, we  actually  use  two  turbines, one  high  pressure  turbine, and  a  low  pressure  turbine. If  you  look  at  state  three, we  start  expanding  the  steam  isyropicly, probably  in  the  left  one  here. From  state  three,  we start  expanding  the  steam isyropically  to  state  four at  an  intermediate  pressure. And  once  the  quality of  the  steam  is  close  to  one, and  if  you  start  if you  start  expanding  it  more, it  becomes  mixture.  You  do  not  want  that. At  state  four,  you  send the  steam  back  to  the  boiler  again, and  at  constant  pressure,  you  add  heat, and  this  will  increase the  temperature  to  the  maximum  temperature. For  the  turbine,  and  again, you  send  this  reheated  steam back  to  a  low  pressure  turbine. So  you  have  two  turbines, and  once  you  start  reheating, at  the  end  of  this  low  pressure  turbine, if  you  check  the  quality,  it  is  pretty  high. So  this  is  the  way  you actually  start  reheating your  steam  so  that  you  avoid the  poor  quality  at  the  exit  of  turbine. And  if  we  accept  that  concept  of  reheating, which  is  going  to  improve the  efficiency  of  the  cycle, we  can  work  on  a  small  problem so  that  you  get a  better  understanding  of  what  we  are  doing. For  this  particular  problem, the  given  conditions  are temperature  and  pressure  at  state  three. And  from  this,  you  can  actually  evaluate the  enthalp  and  entropy at  state  three,  right? And  you  are  also  given temperature  and  pressure  at  state. State  five  is  nothing  but the  inlet  of  the  low  pressure  turbine. So  from  this,  you  can  evaluate enthalp  and  entropy  at  state  five. Right? I.  Once  you  reach  the  condenser  pressure, P  six,  that  is, since  the  condenser  operates at  a  constant  pressure, P  six  should  be  equal  to  P  one. P  six  is  equal  to  P  one, and  the  quality  at  state one  is  zero  because  it  is  saturated  liquid. So  you  have  two  properties  again, and  you  can  evaluate  the  hal  P  at  state  one. And  from  pressure  P  three, once  you  start  expanding  to the  intermediate  pressure  P  four,  No. You  you  add  the  heat to  this  team  again at  constant  pressure  in  the  boiler. Remember  that  in  boiler,  you always  have  constant  pressure. Therefore,  P  four  should  be  equal to  P  five,  right? And  S  three  is  equal  to  S  four since  you  have  isentropic  expansion in  the  previous  turbine. So  you  again  have  two  properties and  you  can  evaluate  enthalpy  at  four. So  we  got  Yeah. So  now  we  need  few  more  of these  properties,  which  I  can  quickly. Yeah. We  need  enthalpies  at  the  remaining  states and  at  the  end of  this  compression  in  the  pump. You  have  S  one  is  equal  to  S  two. Notice  that  you  can  get  S  one  from  here. Since  this  is isentropic  compression  in  the  pump, you  have  S  one  equal  to  S  two, and  also  pressure  at two  is  equal  to  pressure  at  three, P  three  is  given. So  you  can  evaluate  the  enthalp  at  state  two. So  now,  one,  two,  three,  45. Yeah.  And  maybe  state  six. Yeah,  we  need  the  hal  pate  state  six, which  is  basically  you  have  P six  and  S  five  is  equal  to  S  six  isentropic, so  you  can  evaluate  the  enthalpate  six. Now  you  have  the  enthalpies  at each  of  these  states  in  my  entire  cycle. In  the  previous  class, you  have  seen  that  if  you apply  the  first  c  of thermodynamics  for  each  of  these  processes, you  can  get  the  interactions of  heat  and  work. Notice  that  they  operate under  steady  flow  conditions. Therefore,  the  mass  flow  rate  is constant  everywhere  throughout  the  cycle. So  from  that,  if  I  start evaluating  Everything  is  written on  per  unit  mass  basis  here. The  work  done  by  the  pump or  the  work  into the  pump  is  H  two  minus  H  one. The  heat  transfer  to the  boiler  is  you have  heat  addition  in two  stages  here  since  this  is  a  reheat  cycle. The  first  stage  is  similar. Super  heat  to  state  three  plus, you  get  a  component  of reheat  because  you're  heating to  state  five  from  state  four. This  is  your Reheat  component. Right?  And  for  turbine  work  output, again,  You  have  two  turbines, high  pressure  turbine, and  low  pressure  turbine. And  here,  the  high pressure  turbine  output  and the  low  pressure  turbine  output  are independently  evaluated. This  is  for  the  high  pressure  turbine. And  this  is  for  the  low  pressure  turbine. And  for  the  condenser, he  transfer,  is  very  similar to  the  idea  of  ranking  cycle. Q  condenser  is  H  six  minus  H  one. Maybe  I  would  like  to  center  bit.  Yeah. So  this  is  the  way  you  evaluate the  heat  transfer  and  work interactions  in  this  reheat  cycle. It  is  very  similar  to the  ideal  ranking  cycle. It's  just  that  you're  adding few  more  additional  processes, and  you  change  the  respective  processes in  your  energy  balance. That's  all. So  one  of  the  given  thing for  this  problem  is  the  net  work  output. The  total  net  output  is  given as  five  than  kilowatts. From  which  you  can  actually evaluate  the  mass  flo  rate. This  is  turbine  out  minus  W  pump  in. Therefore,  you  can  evaluate the  mass  flow  rate  of  your  system. And  from  this,  you  can evaluate  the  efficiency  of  this  reheat  cycle. There  is  nothing  but  W  net out  added  by  the  heat which  you  have  given  into  the  boiler. And  if  you  evaluate, you  are  going  to  get  an  efficiency  of  about 27.89%  for  this  reheat  cycle. And  if  you  have the  upper  and  lower  temperatures in  a  similar  fashion  for  a  carno  cycle, the  efficiency  of  a  car  cycle for  working  between the  same  temperature  differences would  be  about  one minus  T  cold  by  T  hot. The  coldest  temperature  here is  the  condenser  temperature, and  the  hottest  temperature  here is  my  turbine  in  late  temperature, which  is  one  minus  t  six  by  T  three, which  would  be  about  38.39%. Yeah.  Yeah. So  with  respect  to  car  noo  efficiency, this  is  much  better in  comparison  to  the  ideal  rank  in  cycle. The  second  law  efficiency  of this  particular  cycle  is  pretty  good  since you're  reheating  and  you  are  making use  of  additional  processes. Now,  the  whole  concept  of  improving the  efficiency  actually  depends on  two  particular  processes. One,  either  we  have  to reduce  the  average  temperature at  which  the  condenser rejects  the  heat  or  increase the  average  temperature  at which  you  add  the  heat, how  does  this  principle  come  from? It  is  from  the  carno  cycle. Either  I  have  to  increase the  average  temperature  at which  I  add  the  heat  or I  have  to  reduce  the average  temperature  at  which  I reject  the  heat  to  basically improve  my  cycle  efficiency. In  an  ideal  cycle, if  you  look  at  the  process  two,  three, the  constant  pressure  heat addition  process  in  the  boiler, a  portion  of  the  heat 22  dash  is  the  sensible  heating. You  are  basically  heating up  the  subcool  liquid to  reach  to  the  saturated  liquid  temperature by  simply  adding  heat, and  that  is  a  relatively  low temperature  heat  addition  process with  respect  to  any  other  process  you have  in  the  system  or  the  cycle. So  in  order  to  eliminate this  or  in  order  to  rectify  this, we  have  a  concept  called  regeneration. The  concept  of  regeneration is  fairly  straightforward. You  have  a  single  turbine  now. You  start  expanding  the  steam from  the  turbine  to a  particular  intermediate  pressure. At  this  particular  intermediate  pressure, I  start  extracting  the  steam  from the  turbine  and  I send  it  to  a  feedwater  system. This  feedwater  system  is  basically a  mixing  chamber  where  you mix  steam  from  the  turbine  exit, where  you  have  extracted at  a  intermediate  pressure, and  you  mix  the  liquid  from  the  pump. Once  you  mix  this,  you  actually  raise the  temperature  of  the  liquid, which  you  are  essentially sending  into  the  boiler. The  concept  here  is  like  I'm  increasing the  average  temperature  of heat  addition  to  the  cycle, and  this  improves  my  efficiency. So  if  I  look  at  this  image  on  the  left  here, at  an  intermediate  pressure, six,  for  example, I  start  extracting  a  portion of  my  mast  floate  of  the  steam, and  then  the  remaining  portion  of the  mast  floate  it  is sent  into  the  condenser. So  So  from  state  six, you're  actually  sending  in  a  fraction  of steam  to  the  open  feedwater  system, and  the  remaining  fraction actually  goes  into  the  condenser. That  is  one  minus  y. Let's  say  for  every  KG y  portion  is  going  to  the  left  and  the remaining  one  minus  y  goes  to the  condenser  to  the  bottom,  right? This  is  the  only  change  with  respect to  regenerative  cycle.  And  why  do  we  do  that? As  I  mentioned,  it  increases the  average  temperature  at which  you  add  heat  to  the  cycle, and  this  increases the  efficiency  of  the  system. So  if  we  can  do  another  problem  to basically  understand  the  concept  of ideal  regenerative  ranking  cycle. So  in  this  problem,  the  given  conditions, the  given  conditions  are you  have  temperature  and pressure  at  state  five. State  five  is  nothing but  the  turbine inlet  temperature  and  pressure. From  this,  you  can  evaluate  H  and  S  five. You  have  pressure  at  state  six, which  is  the  intermediate  pressure. Since  it  is  isentropic  expansion, I'm  going  to  have  S  six  equal  to  S  five. I  can  evaluate  the  enthalpy  at  state  six. Pressure  at  seven  is  given  P  seven, and  S  seven  is  equal  to  S  five,  again, isentropic,  so  I  can evaluate  the  enthalpy  at  state  seven. Since  the  condenser  operates at  a  constant  pressure, P  seven  equal  to  P  one, and  the  quality  at  state  one  is  zero because  you  have  saturated  liquid, and  therefore, you  have  the  enthalpy  at  state  one. The  pressure  at  two  is equal  to  the  pressure  at  six, it's  a  constant  pressure  tradition  process, and  S  two  equal  to  S  one. You  pump  operates  in  an  isentropic  manner, so  you  have  H  two. And  then  P  two is  equal  to  p  three  equal  to  P  six. It's  a  constant  pressure  boiler, and  at  X  three, you  have  the  quality  is  zero. Right?  So  you  can evaluate  H  three  and  S  three. And  finally,  P  four  equal  to  P  five, S  three  is  equal  to  S  four, again,  you  have  isentropic  process. So  you  have  H  four. So  now  you  have  enthalpies at  all  the  states of  this  regenerative  process. But  one  question  is,  how  do I  evaluate  the  fraction of  the  mass  flow  rate? For  that,  you  can  take  a  control  volume  for this  open  feedwater  system and  apply  the  energy  balance. So  basically,  if  I  take  my  feedwater  system, the  inlet  is  y  times  H  six, and  the  other  one  is  one  minus  y  times  H  two. Notice  that  I'm  using  y  times  H  six  because I'm  extracting  y  portion  of my  steam  from  the  turbine, and  the  remaining  portion goes  into  the  condenser, which  is  one  minus  y, and  then  it  is  fed  into the  open  water  system  at the  stated  liquid  condition. And  the  outlet  is H  three,  because  both  of  them  mix  and  you get  per  unit  basis  one  malate. So  I  I  apply the  energy  balance  for this  control  volume  here, H  three  is  equal  to  y times  six  plus  one  minus  y  times  H  two. I  can  evaluate  y  three  minus  H two  divided  by  H six  minus  H  two. So  now  you  have  all  the  parameters  to evaluate  the  efficiency  of this  regenerative  cycle. And  if  I  substitute the  values  of  this  particular  problem, the  efficiency  of  this  regenerative  cycle is  about  46.32%. And  for  the  same  temperature  conditions, the  efficiency  of  car no  cycle  is  about  one  minus  t  by  t  hot. Notice  that  the  lowest  temperature is  the  condenser  temperature  and the  highest  temperature  is the  steam  inlet  temperature. That  would  be  about  63.47%.  Okay. So  these  are  the  typical  values for  the  regenerative  cycle. And  here,  I  would  like  to  add  some  comments. First,  for  the  reheat  cycle. I  would  like  to  erase  this.  Sorry  for  that. So  you've  seen  that  for  a  reheat  cycle, you  actually  have  two  turbines and  then  something  like  this. Maybe  see.  Two,  three,  four,  five,  six. Now,  if  I  start having  a  number  of  turbines  here  and reduce  this  isyopic  expansion in  each  turbine,  how  would  my  cycle  look? Right?  Something  like  that. This  is  T  S. Right?  If  I  have  multiple  number  of  turbines, and  if  I  reduce the  expansion  ratio here,  it  would  look  something  like  this. And  if  I  keep  on  doing  this  and  reduce the  expansion  ratio  to a  smallest  possible  extent,  eventually, I'm  going  to  get  a constant  pressure  heat  addition  process, which  is  something  similar  to  a  carocyc. Yeah.  Skipping  over  the  condenser  increase. Sorry.  Skipping  the  condenser, having  that  second.  Oh,  yeah. It's  not  that  we  are skipping  the  entire  condenser  thing. We  are  only  taking  a  fraction  of steam  because  it's  hot  and you're  trying  to  add it  to  the  incoming  fluid  from  the  pump, so  you're  basically  raising the  temperature  of  the  fluid  from  the  pump. So  we  are  using  only  a  fraction  of  the  steam, not  the  full  steam. Yeah.  Why? Why  not  just  coming  out  Uh, if  you  do  not  have  the  condenser, you  cannot  have  the  heat  rejection  anymore, and  therefore,  you  cannot  have  the  cycle. You  should  have  the  cycle  to actually  extract  some  meaningful  work. Otherwise,  it's  just  not possible  to  extract  work. Yeah. Yeah.  And  Yeah, that's  that's  more  or less  covered  with  the  two  topics  we  have. So  if  you  have  any  more  questions. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. Oh,  sorry. Yeah,  maybe  I'm  a  bit  quick, So  if  you  have  any  questions, you  can  ask  or  you  can  leave.  Yeah. Yeah.  I  was  wondering  how
