Yeah. All  right. Today,  vapor  power  cycles. So  after  today,  we're  able  to  analyze the  vapor  power  cycle  in  which the  fluid  is  boiled  and  condensed. In  the  previous  part, we  were  looking  at the  case  where  the  working  floor remained  gas  the  whole  time. All  right.  So  the most  So  why  do  we  care  about  this? We  care  about  this  because  most of  our  energy  and  electricity is  produced  by  this  device  here, right?  So  what  does  it  look  like? It  doesn't  look  too dissimilar  to the  Brayton  cycle  that  we  saw  before, which  operated  with  gas  as  the  working  fluid, which  didn't  change  phase. The  only  real  difference  is that  instead  of  a  compressor, we  have  a  pump,  Um, the  heat  exchanger  where  we put  heat  in,  we  call  it  boiler. Turbine  is  the  same, and  the  device  that takes  heat  out  is  called  the  condenser. Of  course,  in  Brayton, we  idealize  it  as a  closed  loop  cycle,  even  though  it  wasn't. In  the  case  of  Rankin,  it  is  closed  loop. It  is  closed  loop,  all  right? Um,  The  most  commonly  used  working  fluid that's  in  here  is  water, and  people  go  to  great  pains  to  characterize and  know  the  state  of  this water  through  the  cycle,  right? So  it's  very  pure  stuff. Okay,  so  again,  work  in  through  your  pump, heat  in  through  the  boiler, work  out  from  the  turbine, heat  out  from  the  condenser. This  is  how  it's  represented  in  the  book  on the  TS  diagram,  right? So  the  work  transfer  process in  the  ideal  rankin  cycle, is  isotropic,  so  it's  vertical. The  heat  addition  here  is  two  to  three. This  is  not  right? Like  when  we  did  Carnot  and  we  looked  at  it, we  expected  this  to be  and  also  Sterling,  right? This  is  like  a  flat  line.  We  introduced heat  at  a  constant  temperature. That  does  happen  during  the  heat  addition during  boiling, but  when  it's  a  sub  cooled  liquid  and  then a  superheated  vapor, this  does  not  happen,  okay? Isentropic  workout, and  then  the  heat  out,  right? One  way  to  visualize rankin  or  to  think  about  rankin  again, thinking  about  the  TS  diagram,  is  to  again, go  back  to  Carne  and  look  and  say, Okay,  so  what  did  Carnal  look like  on  a  TS  diagram? Here's  my  temperature,  here's  my  entropy, heat  addition,  isothermal,  right? So  here,  work  out  isotropic, heat  out,  isothermal, and  then  work  in  isentropic,  right? So  this  is  your  TH,  and  this  is your  T.  The  way  to  visualize, really  rank  in  is  it's  like  trying  to take  this  box,  right, or  rectangle  and  map it  onto  something  that has  a  vapor  dome,  okay? So  trying  to  take  this  and  make  it  work, on  something  like  water  that  has  saturated liquid  and  saturated  vapor,  right? So  how  do  you  make  it  work? What's  very  important  in a  turbine  is  that you  do  not  have  phase  change,  okay? You  want  what's  passing through  the  turbine  to  be  at a  very  high  specific  volume  because  it's  VDP? Your  work  is  specific  volume times  the  difference  in  the  pressure. The  higher  the  specific  volume,  right, the  more  specific  work  I'm  going  to  get  out. So  you  want  to  be  somewhere  out  here, and  you  do  not  want  to  fall into  under  the  dome,  okay? Actually,  maybe  ideally,  you want  to  come  up  right  to the  line  and  be  here. The  second  reason  why  you  do  not  want this  work  transfer  process  to  fall into  the  dome  is  when  that  happens, you're  going  to  make  a  condened  phase. You're  going  to  make  droplets,  all  right? And  these  blades  that  are  in  there, they  spin  very,  very  fast,  right? And  what  you  should  imagine is  if  you  make  a  lot  of  fine  mist, those  droplets  have  a  high  density  to  them, and  you're  just  going  to  be  hitting it  constantly  over  and  over, and  it's  going  to  erode,  right? So  you're  basically  going  to  erode your  blades  if you  have  if  you  have  that,  okay? So  that's  like  one  part  of  it. When  we  look  at  the  heat  rejection. So  out  of  the  back  end  of  the  turbine,  right, where  we're  taking  the  heat  out. And  this  is  the  one  part  where you  probably  could  keep  things, and  indeed  in  almost  in  this  idealized  case, this  process,  you  know, happens  to  pretty  much  look isothermal  basically  look  isothermal  there. So  this  is,  you  know,  you're  doing  okay. You  condense  back  to  a  liquid. Part  of  the  reason  why  you  want to  condense  back  into  a  liquid  is, again,  when  you're  a  liquid,  you have  a  very  low  specific  volume. So  if  you  think  about the  work  transferred  in,  VDP. I  have  a  very  low  specific  volume, but  I'm  a  liquid. So  the  amount  of  work  that  I  put in  is  going  to  be much  less  compared  to  what  I  get  out,  right? All  right.  Yeah,  so  we  had  that  heat transfer  out  process,  which  was  isothermal. And  obviously,  since  the  heat  exchanger, it's  isobaric,  you  have  work  that  you  put  in. So  you  bring  this  up  to some  pressure  that's  here, and  the  heat  addition  process right  in  the  boiler, like  any  heat  exchanger  is  isobaric. So  the  isotherm  is  going  to look  something  like  this,  right? Essentially,  when  you  start  to  add  heat, it's  going  to  follow  this  isotherm,  okay? So  Rankin  is  trying to  put  no  like  a  square  peg  into, I  don't  know,  this  parabola, to  make  that  work. Does  that  make  sense?  Again,  key  concepts  are that  work  transfer  is  V  the  P  here. At  this  case,  this  is a  very  low  specific volume  because  it's  a  liquid, and  in  here,  it  is  very  high. You  do  not  want  during  this  workout  process, you  never  want  to  be  pumping  or  using a  turbine  with  a  multi  phase,  right? You  want  to  be  single  phase. So  here  because  of  this,  right, I'll  be  single  phase  where I'm  a  superheated  vapor, single  phase  while  I'm  a  liquid. I  do  get a  constant  temperature  heat  rejection effectively  if  I  stay  within  the  dome. And  then  given  all  those  other  constraints, you're  not  going  to  have  a  constant  TH,  okay? So,  what  that  means  is  when  you  do compare  yourself  to  Carn  with  this, you  will  choose  this  as  your  TH,  right? But  most  of  the  process  there  of the  heat  addition  is  not  at  TH,  right? You're  at  a  lower  temperature, which  means  that  you're  at  essentially, right,  a  lower  grade  of heat  that  you're  putting  in. So  you'll  see  significant  deviations  of  this compared  to  Carn  for  that  reason,  okay. Okay. What  else  can  I  say  about  this? Yeah,  water  is  commonly  what's  used. You  can  use  other  fluids.  So  there are  other  fluids  that  can  be  used  for  this, but  water  is  the  dominant  one. The  power  plants  that  operate  on this  are  fossil  fuel  based, so  I  think  coal  and that,  but  also  nuclear,  right? So  nuclear  systems  run  on  rankin  systems. You  have  different  different  types like  pressurized  water  and so  on  and  so  forth. But  at  the  end  of  the  day,  essentially, all  that  you  have  from  nuclear  is that  it's  still  a  heat  exchanger. So  the  Q  and  is  all  the  same,  all  right? They  just  have  limitations in  terms  of  the  upper  operating  temperature. So  if  you  use  something  that's  fossil  fuel, you'd  be  allow  to  go to  higher  temperature  than nuclear  for  maybe  obvious  reasons. Yes,  please.  Would  you  want  us  to  memorize all  the  effects  of cycles?  What  does  that  mean? I  want  you  to  make  new  cycles. I  want  you  to  go  out  and  create new  things  that  are  more  efficient  and get  rich  and  then  remember  me  when  you  become a  donor  to  this  wonderful  university, right,  David? Okay.  So,  I  mean,  memorize  all  of  them. I  want  you  to  able  to  classify,  right? So  what  I  keep  repeating  here  in the  classification  is  that I  have  a  power  cycle, and  within  power  cycles, I  think  of  gas,  right? So  gas  power  cycle  or  a, what  did  I  say  at  the  beginning,  vapor,  okay? So  what  should  go  off  in  your  mind  when  I  say gas  is  that  the  working  fluid should  not  change  a  state, should  remain  a  gas,  right? And  there,  because  it's  a  gas, it's  probably  a  wet.  Idel  gas,  right? Which  means  it's,  you  know, life  can  get  a  lot  easier  when  you  get into  the  analysis,  right? So  the  other  part  of  the  classification is  that  we  have  a  vapor  power  cycle. There  are  things  change  phase. You  don't  have  ideal  gas. We  have  to  use  PClor. Yeah,  so  that's  kind  of  the  differentiation. When  it  gets  to  the  device  level,  right? I  still  need  you  to  go device  by  device,  right? So  maybe  I'll  give  you  a  problem, like,  Hey,  look  at  this  thing. Here's  some  conditions. Tell  me,  is  it  good  or  not. Tell  me,  is  this  a  violation  of a  first  or  a  second  law  here? Is  this  like  a  plausible  system? So  then  I  need  to  be  able  to  break down  individual  components,  right? Apply  steady  flow  analysis  for,  um, conservation  of  mass,  conservation  of  energy, and  entropy  control  volume  analysis. Bang,  bang,  bang,  bang,  okay? And  when  I  get  into  this, you'll  show  that,  like, because  you  have  good  fundamentals for  each  of  those  devices, you're  going  to  be  able to  go  through  these  things quickly  because it's  going  to  get  complicated. Here  I  have  four.  I  think  at  the  end  of  this, maybe  I  have  eight  devices,  and,  like, I  can  do  more,  but  it's  not  hard,  right? It's  just  like,  you  know, like  anything  like  any  language. You  got  to  learn  sort  of,  you  know, what's  going  on  with  it, and  then  it  gets  easier. So,  in  a  sense,  you should  remember  the  fundamentals. I  would  say  ranking  is a  pretty  fundamentally  important  cycle that's  there,  but  Yeah. Okay. Does  that  answer  your  question? Yeah.  I  was  long  winded. Other  questions?  All  right. So  let's  get  into  this. Let's  analyze  our  Rankin  cycle. This  is  Rankin  here. All  right.  I  will  erase  this. Do  we  look  good. We'll  go  with  this  here.  All  right. Okay.  To  do.  All  right, so  we  drew  right, I'll  draw  the  schematics  here. I'll  have  it  there,  and  then  I'll turn  off  the  monitor. But  basically,  right,  we  have a  pump,  which  is  here. I  have  some  w.in, which  I'm  putting  into  that. That's  then  going  into  my  boiler,  okay, which  is  essentially a  glorified  heat  exchanger, aq.in,  right?  All  right? This  is  then  going  into  a  turbine,  right? So  I  have  here,  so  my  turbine, like  that.  All  right. I  have  a  W  dot  out  from  this. All  right.  And  then  this  is  then  going  into my  condenser.  All  right. Cool.  So  this  has  then  a  Q  dot  out. The  way  that  you  cool these  condensers,  all  right, is  actually  that  we have  usually  water  can  be  air, but  a  lot  of  times  it's  water. That  will  pass  through  this  and then  we'll  put  back  into  the  ground,  okay? And  about  half  the  groundwater in  this  country  that  we  take  out  every  year passes  through  that  device through  a  surface  condenser. The  surface  area.  So,  again, this  is  like  many  tubes. You  have  like  many  tubes,  right? The  effective  surface  areas that  you  have  on  the  outside  of these  tubes  are  measured  in  the  size  of Cal  Memorial  Stadiums,  right? Like,  they're  football  pitches of  area,  a  lot  of  material. So  it's  a  huge  they're  huge. You'll  see  this  on  some of  your  homework  problems. I  think  in  this  specific  case,  we  use  cooling water  to  reject  heat out  of  a  refrigeration  system, but  this  is  what  you  do,  okay? We're  in  a  data  center,  right, in  Wisconsin, Microsoft's  building one  close  to  Lake  Michigan. Why.  Okay.  Because  the  lake. There's  a  lot  of  water  there,  right? So  they  have  that  and  they  do  cooling. So  anyway,  that's  typically  how  it's  done. It  can  also  be  that  you  loop  water  here, and  then  this  goes  into, like,  a  cooling  tower. So  this  exact  if  you  ever drive  by  and  see  a  cooling  tower, for  example,  maybe  nuclear, all  you  have  here  is  this  cooling  loop, and  then  you're  effectively  spraying, where  you're  atomizing  a  bunch  of  water, you're  letting  it  cool  down, it  settles,  and  you  loop  it  again,  okay? But  the  key  element  for  us  is  that we  have  aq.in  from  combustion and  a  Q  dot  out  from  some  cooling, right,  which  we  don't  have  to specify  for  this  exact  problem. In  terms  of  states, just  like  we  had  with,  um,  With  Brighton, State  one  will  be  what's  entering  into the  pressurizing  device,  let's  say  the  pump. State  two  is  at  the  exit  of the  pump  entering  into  the  heat  exchanger, State  three  at  the  exit  of the  heat  exchanger  entering  the  turbine, and  state  four  like  that. What  we  can  do  is  we  can  do steady  flow  analysis  to each  of  these  devices,  right? So  I  can  go  here  and  do  this. Drop  my  control  volume  here  for this.  Do  another  one  here. Do  another  one,  another  one  that's  here. Just  at  the  risk  of  confusing, I  will  get  rid  of  that. Okay,  so  there's  my  heat  exchanger, and  there's  my  Q  dot.  All  right. All  right. So  in  the  steady  flow  analysis,  right? So  we're  going  to  assume  for each  of  these  devices  that  we  don't have  a  change  in  the  mass of  their  control  volumes, no  change  in  the  energy  of the  control  volumes  and  no  change  in the  entropy  of  their  control  volumes,  right? So,  what  that  means  is  that your  E  dot  N  is  equal  to  E  dot  out,  right? For  this,  which  is  then  your  w.in plus  q.in  plus  your.in  times H  in  plus  velocity  in  squared divided  by  two  plus  gz  N  is  equal  to, your  W  dot  out,  plus  your  Q  dot  out, plus  your  dot  out, H  out  plus  W, so  velocity  out  squared  divided  by two  plus  G  Z  out,  right? First  assumption  for  these  since  we're not  dealing  with  nozzles  or  diffusers, as  you  neglect  your  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energies, which  are  there. That's  one  part  of  it. For  our  entropy  analysis, we  can  do  our  mass  now. Essentially  because  of  that, with  the  conservation  of  mass and  no  change  in the  mass  in  the  control  volume, m.in  is  equal  to  M  dot  out  is  equal  to  M  dot. For  our  entropy  analysis,  ds,  CV  dt. The  change  in  entropy  of  any  of those  control  volumes  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  rate  of  entropy  coming in  minus  the  rate  that  it  leaves plus  the  rate  that  it's  generated dot  g.  All  right.  Steady  flow. So  this  is  out.  And  for  these  cycles  today, we're  going  to  assume,  right, and  this  is  how  we'll  handle at  least  the  first  stage  always  in this  analysis  is  we compute  the  ideal  process. So  the  ideal  here  really  means  that the  pump  and  the  turbine  are  adiabatic, and  they  are  reversible. So  what  that  means  is that  there  is  no  entro  be  generated. So  out  of  this,  it  means  that capitals.in  is  equal  to  capitals  dot  out. What  that  means  is  that.in  times  little  So, times  little  SN  is  equal  to  m dot  out  times  little  S  out. Mass  is  gone. What  it  means  is  that  the  specific  entropy  at the  inlet  is  equal  to the  specific  entropy  at  the  outlet. Good.  I'm  not  saying  anything  radical  here. I  just  reminding  him. Okay,  in  case  the  Amazon web  services  shutdown  affected  you,  right? Some  of  you  tried  to  use  paper  tables. I  hope  that  was  a  good  experience. All  right,  so  this  is  where  we  are. So  we  can  go  now  one  by  one. So  if  we  go  with  our  pump, for  the  work  process,  w.in,  right, what  this  is  going  to  end  up  being  is  that this  is  going  to  be  M  dot  times the  enthalpy  at  state  two  H two  minus  the  enthalpy  at  state  one.  Good. Q.in  is  going  to  be M  dot  times  H  three  minus  H  two. To  stay  consistent  with the  notation  that  we  were using  before  to  indicate  that something  was  isentropic, I  will  call  this  h2s  and  H  twos. H  one  is  an  inlet  state, and  H  three  is  going  to  be an  inlet  state  for  the  turbine. Our  W  dot  out  then  is  equal  to our  dot  times  H  three  minus  H  four, because  that's  at  the  exit, and  then  your  Q  dot  out  here, which  comes  from  the  condenser is  going  to  be  your  M  dot, and  that's  going  to  be  multiplied by  four  minus  one. Questions?  Just  hearing  voices. Cool.  It  happens. All  right.  Good.  So  this  all  looks  good. So  we've  got  this.  We  can  write. Maybe  I'll  stay  with this  slide  just  for  a  second. From  this,  right? So,  you  know,  go  ahead. Yes,  please.  Why  can we  assume  that  it's isotropic  there's  a  difference? Because  I'm  calling  it  an  ideal  cycle. One.  So,  no,  no,  no, why  is  it  isotropic? So  here,  So  my  question  to  you  is, what  are  you  considering  isotropic? No,  no,  no.  I  mean,  which  device  here? Which  process  am  I  considering an  isentropic  process? Yes.  So  which  parts  don't have  a  Q?  There  is  no  Delta  Q. There  is  Q.  That's  it. So  these  are  adiabatic  and  reversible, which  means  are  isotropic,  right?  You  agree. So  when  I'm  talking about  a  heat  addition  here from  something  at  the  exit  of which  underwent  an  isentropic  process, this  would  then  be  so  if  state  three  is my  inlet  and  I  have  an  isentropic  turbine, then  I  have  state  four  S  here,  right? So  I  would  call  this  h4s. Now,  my  heat  rejection  is  going  to be.h4  minus  H  one. So  just  because  I'm  denoting  this  as  h4s, meaning  that  to  get  to  that  state  I underwent an  isentropic  work  transfer  process, doesn't  say  anything  about  four  to  one. Okay?  Okay?  The  side of  the  rooms  on  it.  Okay.  Other  questions? Clarifications?  All  right.  Where  was  I? Okay,  so  now  what  we  can  do  is we  can  define  an  efficiency,  all  right? So  what  is  the  thermal efficiency  of  an  engine? Now,  N.  N? Miles.  Closer. Yes,  please. That's  one  minus  H  over  TC  is  almost  Carne, but  not  LA  Lakers  in  the  back  there? Okay.  That's  okay.  You  can  contribute. This  could  be  like  a  Kobe  thing, you  know,  so  Yes,  please. Name?  Sid.  Network.  Thank  you. Network  out  w.net  over.in. I'm  going  to  ask  you one  question  on  the  quiz, and  it's  going  to  be  that. Sid's  going  to  nail  it,  all  right? Okay,  that's  going  to  be  your  only  question and  spelling  your  name.  So  there  you  go. You  have  the  theral efficiency  of  your  engine, the  network  out  over  the  net  heat  in,  okay? So  we  can  write  this. What's  another  way  we  could  write  this? It's  a  cycle.  So  from a  first  law  perspective  of a  cycle,  what  does  that  mean? Yes.  Plus.  We  can  plug  in  the  numbers. I'm  asking  more  like  how else  can  I  write  this  efficiency? So  if  I  drew  the  control  volume around  the  entire  device  here. So  if  I  drew  a  control  volume  around  now, this  entire  device,  Okay. And  I  told  you  that  this  also  was a  operating  under  a  steady  condition. What  does  it  mean  for  this  control  volume? Yes,  please.  AV,  Say  it  one  more  time. That's  it.  There's  no  change,  okay? So  on  a  good  week, you  know,  in  a  bank  account, what  goes  in  is  what  goes  out, all  right?  That's  where  you're  at. So  I'm  saying  here  that the  thermal  efficiency  is my  w.net  over  my.in. My  w.net  here  is  the  w  dot  workout minus  the  w  dot  work  in,  right? Okay.  Good.  What  must  that  be equal  to?  Q  net. What  type  of  Q  net,  though?  Q  dot. Yes,  q.net  in,  right? This  is  q.net  out, this  is  q.net  in, and  that's  q.in,  okay? For  many  cycles,  like, especially  when  it  was  Sterling, it  is  much  easier  to  do  this,  right? You  could  do  it  this  way.  That's  fine. But  if  it  was  something  like  Sterling, you  got  to  get an  adiabatic  work  transfer  processes, but  it's  much  easier  to  calculate  this. So  these  are  two  things  that  I  would  say  to David  are  things  to remember  for  a  cycle,  okay? This  is  base  stuff  to  remember,  all  right? Okay.  We're  having  fun. All  right,  so  we  have  this if  we  did  our  substitution,  right? So  what  we  have  for  the  net  out, this  is  W  dot  out  minus  w.in  divided  by  q.in. This  is  equal  to  then.h3 minus  four  minus  m  dot  times  h2s  minus  H  one, and  that's  all  divided  by  m  dot times  H  three  minus  h2s. Right?  Okay,  so that's  one  way  to  do  it,  right? Your  masses  would  basically  cancel and  you  could  do  some  rearrangement. Another  way  you  could  do  it  is the  q.net  in,  right? Which  we  can  write  as q.in  minus  q  dot  out  divided  by  q.in, which  is  nothing  but  one  minus  q  dot out  divided  by  q.in,  right? All  right.  So  here, if  we  do  it  that  way,  so  we  have  one  minus, the  Q  dot  out  is  going  to  be dot  times  H  four  minus  H  one, and  the  q.in  is  dot  three  minus  h2s,  okay? And  these  would  go  away. All  right?  All  right. And  so  at  this  point,  What  do  you  do? Yes,  please,  David? I  have  a  question  about  the  cycle  efficiency of  one  minus  rolled  over  to  you?  Yes. Do  other  cycles  also  have? I've  derived  you  auto,  diesel,  Brayton. I've  told  you  about a  jet  propulsion  efficiency. I  told  you  that  Sterling  becomes  Carne. So  yes,  I've  given  you at  least  five.  I'll  give  you  a  high  five. And  by  the  end  of  this, I'll  have  a  couple  more, and  then  I  can  give  you  two.  Alright,  good? They  do.  They  have  ones, but,  I  mean,  at  the  end  of  it, it's  all  the  same. This  is  nothing  but  these  things. So  that  type  of  thing, I  would  not  expect  you. Actually,  I  would,  like, be  emphatic  that  you  do  not  just go  directly  to  inefficiency  there. These  types  of  things,  right? I  would  expect  you  to  be able  to  write  out  and  show  me  what  they  are. Okay?  And  you'll  see  that  if  you  look  at the  practice  problems  on  Module  two  review, I  give  you  a  fun  one  called  Humphrey, which  is  a  variation  on  Brayton that  I  gave  last  year.  They  all  loved  it. Okay.  Alright?  Good.  So  at  this  point, what  do  we  do,  though,  David? So  now  I  have  the  formulas,  right? So  I'm  asked  to  what  I  wanted  to  get here  was  the  thermal  efficiency  of  the  cycle. I  have  a  formula  for  this.  Now,  what  do  I  do? Derive. Yeah,  you  need  to  get  them.  In  the  sense of  this  is  water,  what  do  I  use? Ideal  guess.  Hopefully  not.  Okay.  All  right. Yeah,  so  that's  it.  So  we  can  start  to try  to  figure  out  if  we know  any  of  these  properties. So  what's  given  in  our  problem,  now that  I've  done  the  derivation, I  can  tell  you  what's  typically given  in  a  rankin  problem. What's  typically  given  in a  rankin  problem  is  state  three. Why  state  three?  Two  things. The  first  is  that  it's  the  hottest  point. This  is  where  you're  transferring  heat  in. It's  also  the  point  of  hottest  pressure. All  right? So  what  literally  sets  the  limits  of the  efficiency  of  this  cycle  is, can  I  make  a  boiler  that does  not  explode,  right? Can  I  make  a  boiler  that  does  not basically  melt  and  it's made  of  materials,  all  right? So  here,  Right,  we're  given  state  three, and  because  it's  a  superheated  vapor or  super  critical  sometimes, you're  going  to  be  given  a  T  three  here, in  this  case  of 350  degrees  Celsius  and a  P  three  here  that's  equal  to  3  megapascals, so  30  times  atmospheric  pressure. These  are  not  particularly  high  values. Yes,  please,  Mao. Why  would  you  not  connect the  water  from  the  condenser. One  more  time  for  me. Water  that  goes  through  the  condenser and  for  the  boiler, connect  with  water  that  goes through  the  thing  is  that  the  water  that you  would  put  into  this  condenser that  I'm  not  showing  here  that  I'm representing  as  Q  out is  water  that's  great  for humans  and  the  worst diet  you  could  give  a  machine. So  they  contain  things  that will  corrode  these  components. They'll  calcify,  they'll  like put  limescale  and  stuff  into  it. The  water  that's,  like, inside  here  that  you  boil  is, like,  the  purest  water. It  doesn't  contain  anything  that  can,  like, precipitate  and  destroy  a  boiler. My  buddy  used  to  work  for  me  like  Toledo, and  he  sold  instruments  that  would  monitor, like,  water  quality  in  the  plant. So  you  could  do  something  like  that, but  there  will  be  a  cost, and  the  cost  will  be  that, you  know,  this  will  look  like  it's  on  a  very unhealthy  an  enjoyable  but  unhealthy  diet. Yes,  please.  It's  kind of  like  a  nons  question. Is  there  ever  a  reason  to not  aluminary  generator in  any  of  these  cycles  where it  seems  like  such  an  easy I  mean,  it  all  depends. You're  going  to  be able  to  answer  that  question by  the  end  of  the  course  because  you're going  to  be  able  to turn  this  into  efficiencies and  if  you  know  money  and  how  things  cost, you  can  turn  that  into  several  year  ROI, and  then  you  go  to  your  boss  and  say, Hey,  here's  the  payback  period  on  this. This  is  the  time  frame,  and  they  will  have a  policy  if  it's maybe  like  when  I  worked  two  years, if  I  could  make  a  project  that  I could  make  the  money back  in  less  than  two  years, we  got  to  do  that. Other  questions? Okay,  so  we're  doing  properties  now. We  have  this.  Water  is a  pure  substance, so  we  have  complete  information. I  know  H  three  and  I  know  S  three specific  enthropy  and  specific  entropy  here. Great.  I  To  state  four  to  state  four, again,  we  did  the  entropy control  volume  analysis  there. We  showed  that  for adiabatic  reversible  process  is  isotropic. Steady  flow  means  we  don't  have  change in  entropy  in  the  control  volume. The  isotropic  part  means  we  don't  have entropy  generation  because  it's single  inlet,  single  outlet,  right? S  in  is  S  out,  okay? So  what  is  the  S  in? There  was  S  three, the  out  is  that  S  four  is  equal  to  S  three. The  other  piece  of  information  which is  typically  going  to  be  given  in a  ranking  process  is  the  pressure. So  P  four,  in  this  case, it's  75  PA.  What determines  this  pressure  is the  temperature  of  the  cooling  water. So  basically,  you  would love  this  pressure  to  be  zero. What  sets  this  temperature is  you  bring  in  cooling  water  or  air, and  you  blow  that  over  the outside  of  these  tubes, and  it  brings  it  to  some  temperature. You  have  that  temperature, and  you  know  that  this  is  going  to  be, you  want  to  bring  this  down  to being  a  saturated  vapor. So  with  that  temperature  and  knowing that  it's  a  saturated  vapor, it's  going  to  set  the  pressure,  okay? 75  kPa,  it's  okay,  right? That's  on  the  higher  side  of  a  value. So  this  temperature  here,  if  you look  at  the  saturation  temperature  here, my  guess  is  that  it's  over  30  Celsius  there. All  right?  Okay. But  the  point  is  that  with this,  I  have,  right? I  could  have complete  information  from  this  process. It  means  that  I  know  my  my  H  four. I  could  also  know  T four  if  I  cared  about  it,  right? And  to  be  consistent with  what  I  wrote  before, because  it's  isotropic,  I'll write  H  four  and  let's  say  t4s. Going  along  this  to state  one  to  state  one.  All  right. So  this  is  a  condenser. This  is  a  heat  exchanger. So  it  means  that  P  one is  going  to  be  equal  to  P  four,  right? We're  not  going  to  have  a  pressure drop  across  that  device. The  one  piece  of information  that  is  implicit, I  believe, in  most  rankin  problems,  and  again, this  is  what  differentiates  from a  Braden  analysis  is  that  it's  a  condenser. What  comes  out  of  a  condenser? What  is  the  purpose  of  a  condenser? Louder  someone  H.  Here, what  does  a  condenser  do? No,  you.  What  does  the  condenser do?  What  do  you  think  it  does? What  does  it  mean  to  condense? Reduce  the  pressure?  No. Increase  pressure.  What  is the  process  to  condense? You  have  a  lemonade  on  a  warm  summer  day  and you  put  it  out  there  and  you  look  at  the  side of  that  cold  glass.  What  do  you  see? Condensate.  So  what  does  it  mean  to  condense? What  do  you  expect  to  happen  at the  exit  of  a  condenser? Phase  change  from  what  to  what? That's  it.  How  would I  represent  that  thermodynamically? I  guess,  what  would  I  say? How  would  I  represent  it  being  a  guess? What's  a  property  you could  say  that  says  that  I'm  pretty sure  it's  a  guess during  a  phase  change  process. So  how  is  a  gas  compared  to  a  liquid? What  is  like  one  property  that's quite  different  between  a  gas  and  a  liquid? Or  a  vapor  and  a  liquid? I'll  stand  here  till  the  end. We're  almost  there.  We're  almost. Is  a  gas  light  or  heavy  relative  to  a  liquid? It's  light,  okay? Now,  you  said  it  was  a two  phase  region,  okay? How  do  we  represent  transitions from  vapors  to  liquid when  we're  in  the  two  phase? What's  the  property  that we  use  to  describe  that? I'll  give  you  a  specific  volume,  okay? So  when  I  have  a  specific  volume that's  a  saturated  vapor, what  do  I  call  that? So  I  have  this  here. I  have  a  PV  diagram,  and  I've  started  here. We  agree  that  I have  I  started  at  this  state,  again, my  cold  glass  of  lemonade, right?  And  I'm  going  to  come  to  here. These  are  the  droplets  that  I'm going  to  look  at  that  are  condensed. And  what  I'm  telling  you  is  that  you start  off  here  and  you  go  through. How  do  we  how do  we  say  that  we're  here  on  a  PV  diagram? I  told  you  that  you  could use  this  specific  volume. That  means  that  it's  light  and a  liquid  here  that  it's  heavy. What's  another  way  that we  describe  that  state? Temperature.  Temperature  is  constant along  this  process,  very  good. But  that  won't  tell  me  where  I'm  at  the  line. If  I  just  go  with  temperature, I  could  be  here, I  could  be  here,  I  could  be  here. Because  during  phase  change, I  have  constant  pressure  and constant  temperature. What's  another  property? Say  it  again.  Volume  I've  given  you, specific  volume  we  already  have. So  specific  volume  minus  the  specific  volume when  I'm  a  gas over  the  specific  volume or  when  I'm  a  liquid, over  the  specific  volume  when  I'm  a  gas, minus  specific  volume  when  I'm  a  liquid. What  do  we  call  this? Because  this  will  tell  you  where I  am  along  the  line. Do  you  know  what  we  call  this? Yes  or  no.  Quality.  Yes. This  is  great.  Quality.  What  is the  quality  at  state  one? No,  I  don't  want  it. That's  now  fake  news. You  got  people  hurting  you. This  is  like  vulturing. You  got  someone  coming  in trying  to  take  all  the  work  at  the  end. So  what  is  the  quality  of the  condensed  state  then? So  I'm  saying  here,  right? If  this  is  a  formula  when  I'm  more  like a  if  I  have  here, VG  and  minus  VF  in  the  denominator, so  the  specific  volume  when  I'm  a  vapor, minus  the  specific  volume  when I'm  a  fluid  in  the  denominator. And  in  the  numerator,  I'm subtracting  the  specific  volume  of  a  fluid. If  I  start  off  as  a  vapor, should  the  quality  be? What  should  the  vapor  quality  be? Zero  or  one? Okay.  It's  okay. It  was  50  50.  Vg  minus Vf  over  Vg  minus  VF  is  one. We  call  it  vapor  quality  when it's  one,  you're  a  vapor. So  if  it's  not  one,  what  should you  be  when  you're  here  when  you're  a  liquid? If  you're  not  one,  you're  zero  binary,  okay? So  the  quality  at  state  one  is  equal to  I'm  going  to give  everyone  on  this  side  a  zero. That's  what  you're  going  to  get,  okay? So  this  is  the  condensed  space  here,  right? So  you're  a  liquid. Your  vapor  quality  is  what? Nah,  zero.  Okay. It's  good.  This  is  what's impling  the  ranking. It  will  not  be  mentioned to  you  since  you  were  in this  lecture  and  I  spent  5  minutes  on  it, I  expect  you  all  to  know  that. I  know  you.  I  know  your  names. If  I  grade  this  and  you don't  have  it,  you're  all  done. I'll  learn  his  name  later. Allright?  So  you  have  this  P  one  and  P  four. And  from  this,  you'll  have  H  one, and  you  will  have  you'll  have H  one  and  you  will  have  S  one,  okay? If  I  hear  more  talking,  I'm  going to  call  on  you  and spend  5  minutes  on  you,  all  right? That's  good.  So  H  one  and  S  one,  you  know, and  now  we  come  into  the  pump. Now  we  have  two. So  in  state  two,  again, this  is  the  ideal  case,  right? So  and  the  first  thing is  you  need  to  look  forward,  right? So  with  state  two  connected to  state  three  of  a  heat  exchanger. So  since  I  know  the  pressure  at  state  three, it  means  I  know  the  pressure  at  state  two. P  two  is  equal  to  P  three,  one,  okay? That's  on  one  side  of  the  state. On  the  other  side  of  the  state,  you have  a  pump that's  operating adiabatically  and  reversibly. When  I  do  the  control  volume analysis  with  the  entropy, they  steady  flow, so  there's  no  change  in entropy  of  the  control  volume. It's  isotropic  is  adiabatic  and  reversible, means  there's  entropy  generation. S.in  is  S  dot  out  because  it's  steady  flow, m.in  is  dot  out, which  means  that  S  two  is equal  to  S  three,  okay? Or,  I'm  sorry,  S  two  is  equal to  S  one,  right?  Here,  right? Because  it's  two  to  one. So  S  two  is  equal  to h  is  equal  to  S  one,  which  we  had  there. And  it  means  then  we're basically  able  to  get  H  two, right,  h2s  out  of  that,  okay? So  all  of  that,  you would  just  put  these  into  Pi  color, and  you  would  then  get  out  the  enthalpies that  you  need,  all  right? Right? These  are  the  enthalpies  that  you  would need  to  determine  the  efficiency, which  was  the  goal,  right? So  let's  just  look.  Are  we  correct? H4h  4h4s  here,  right? H  one,  you  have  H  one  here, H  three  and  h2sr  here,  and  here. Questions?  Yes,  please.  Finding. So  if  I  tell  you  it's  just ideal  if  it's  ideal,  it's  that. What  do  you  think  I  would  give  you? What  additional  information  would I  have  to  give you  if  it  was  not  isotropic? What  do  you  think  I  would  provide? Next  Eta  of  what? That's  it. So  basically  we  define  what  we  call isotropic  efficiencies  of  a  turbine, of  a  compressor,  of  a  pump. So  if  it  wasn't  ideal, I  would  say  something  to  the  effect  of, you  know,  here's  a  turbine  that  operates  with an  isentropic  efficiency  of  0.8,  right? And  so  if  I  told  you  that, so  let's  say  I  have  my  turbine  and  I  have this  isotropic  efficiency  of  0.8,  All  right? The  turbine  isentropic  efficiency  is W  dot  actual  divided by  W  dot  isentropic,  right? So  for  a  steady  flow  device,  in  our  case, that  would  look  something  like H  three  minus  H four  A  divided  by  H  three  minus  H  four. I  just  went  through  the  exercise of  determining  HVS. This  is  0.8. H  three  is  always  going  to  be  given, and  you  solve  for  HVA, and  that's  the  actual.  Yes,  please. No.  Work  is  not  TDS,  right. So  no,  that's  a  no,  right? So  the  whole  point  of work  when  we  start  off  as a  basic  analysis  is  we  treat these  as  isotropic  devices. What  differentiates  work  from heat  is  entropy,  okay? Okay,  I  assume  there  was  just  lots  of midterms  this  week  and  we're  all  cooked  or. Thank  you.  I'll  be  a  little  nicer  next  time. Sorry.  Okay. All  right.  Other  questions? Although  they're  good  questions. Yes,  please  in  the  back.  Name? Elias. I  mean,  I  would  say  for a  rank  in  cycle,  you  will  learn. You  will  know  this  and  it  will  become second  nature  to  think  about  it. I  can't  say  right  now  if I'm  going  to  draw  it  pictorially. At  the  moment,  I  feel  in the  world  of  large  language  models, everything  can  be  represented  as  text. So  maybe  I'll  just  say,  like, Hey, these  are  the  components  like  I  have  here. I  have  a  rank  in  cycle  consisting  of  a  pump, a  boiler,  a  turbine, and  a  condenser,  and  here's  some  properties. Now  analyze  the  efficiency. That's  probably  how  I would  give  you  a  problem. All  right. My  question  is  always, let's  step  back  a  second. So  a  condenser  is a  subset  of  a  heat  exchanger. What  do  I  say  literally  every  time I  say  the  word  heat  exchanger  in  this  class? It's  an  isoberic  device. A  heat  exchanger  is  by  definition  isobaric. That  should  be  in  your  head. I'm  not  going  to  tell  you  that. At  the  end  of  a  condenser,  he,  for  example, is  never  going  to  forget  that  the  quality at  the  exit  of  a  condenser  is  zero,  right? That  it's  going  to  come out  as  a  condensed  state. I'm  also  never  going  to  forget  it,  right? So  I  think  those  are  things, but  this  comes  with  practice  and looking  and  having  that? Other  questions?  Yes,  please. Area  of  this  graph,  the  network. So  if  I  took  the  temperature  and  I multiplied  it  by  kilojoules per  kilogram  there,  what  are  my  units? So  what  would  that  be a  total  thing  or  a  specific  thing?  Yeah. Other  questions?  David?  This  is combined  with  cycle. Where  was  the  air  from  the  exhaust. Okay,  that's  an  excellent  question. I  feel  like  you  read  ahead and  are  setting  me  up. This  is  wonderful.  I'll  answer it  in  a  second.  Other  questions? You're  going  in  the  right  direction though.  If  not,  okay. So  this  is  how  it  looked  like. So  again, I've  represented  all  of  what  I  wrote here  on  this.  So  there's  the  X  one. Here's  a  good  reason  to  read  ahead. Sometimes  you'll  see  the  answers. Okay.  Right?  So  this is  how  this  looks  like  on  the TS  diagram  with  those  states. Here's  how  it  would  look  like  on the  PV  diagram. What  you'll  note  through  all  of this  is  that  we  stay  below  the super  critical  or the  critical  point  of  water,  okay? Most  modern  power  plants, nuclear  fossil  fuel  based  ones, do  not  operate  with  this. They  go  Boilers  are now  made  nowadays  to  be  able to  withstand  much  higher  pressures  there. And  so  this  allows  them, when  they  do  the  heat  addition  process, to  go  into  a  super  critical  regime. Now,  to  remind  you  about  super  critical, super  critical  is  I cannot  differentiate  between a  liquid  and  a  vapor,  okay? They  are  one. They're  indistinguishable.  Why  is  that? Here,  I'm  a  saturated  liquid. Here  I'm  a  saturated  vapor. At  this  point,  they merge  and  they're  critical. So  the  closer  you  get  to  the  critical  point, it  becomes  harder  and  harder  to  tell the  difference  until  you  cannot,  okay? The  very  commonly  used  supercritical  fluid  is CO  two  to  make  decaffeinated  coffee. All  right. Maybe  that's  what  you  guys are  drinking  today,  alright? So  this  is  what  you'd  have. So  this  is  then  the  case. What  you'll  note  here is  when  I  have  three  to  four  S, I  am  falling  below  the  dome, so  that  could  be  a  little  bit  problematic. I'm  above  the  temperature, but  I  don't  know  the  pressure  here. So  I  show  you  the  PV  diagram, and  you  see  this  process  is  above that.  Questions? Questions? Why  are  they  relevant? Because  you  asked  me, why  am  I  doing  isentropic? I'm  doing  isentropic  because  it's  ideal. The  way  that  we  make  something  actual and  not  ideal  for work  transfer  devices  is  we talk  about  isotropic  efficiencies, which  is  the  reality  divided  by the  ideal  for  a  turbine and  the  exact  opposite, vice  versa  for  a  compressor. It's  an  easy  way  in  M  40  in a  sophomore  level  class  to take  something  that's  ideal  and  make  it  real. Yes.  That's  what  I  said. Okay,  good.  Other  questions?  Okay. Yes,  we  want  to  look  at  efficiencies, a  modern  foss  fu  steam  power  plant, the  thermal  efficiency  is about  40%,  which  is  a  pretty  big  value. A  nuclear  plant  is  34%, and  the  reason  why  it's lower  is  that  there  are safety  reasons  for  how  high  you  can let  T  three  go  in  the  nuclear. It's  conservative  industry. Okay,  that's  good. To  David's  point  about  combining  cycles, which  I  won't  even  do  in  the  next  one. Maybe  it's  a  lecture  after  that, is  that  the  exit  of the  Brayton  cycle  has  very  hot  gases,  right? So  we  were  talking  about  using regenerators  to  recover  some of  that  and  use  it. You  could  also  just  hook  it  up  and  use  it  as the  cue  in  to  what's  called  the  bottom  cycle. So  you  could  go  in  with that  heat  out  of  the  exhaust  of  a  Brayton, put  that  into  a  heat  exchanger that  would  be,  let's  say, the  boiler  of  a  Rankin and  take  that  lower  grade  heat and  still  get  power,  all  right? This  is  a  something  that  is  done,  okay? What  fluids  would  you  use? You  could  try  to  use  water, but  with  water,  right, to  make  that  work, you  need  high  temperatures  and  all  of  that. The  heat  that  comes  out  of  the  brain and  the  exhaust  may  not  be  warm  enough. So  what  you  might  do  is  to  select a  fluid  that  boils  easier,  okay? So  fluids  that  boil  easier  are, um,  refrigerants. So  refrigerants  are  there. So  R  134  As  are  an  example. Carbon  dioxide  is  another  one. Carbon  dioxide  is a  very  commonly  used  refrigerant. A  lots  known  about  it. There's  a  lot  of  benefits  to  it, but  you  could  use  that  to  be  basically running  the  bottom  cycle. Those  are  commonly  called  organic  ankin. So  organic  Rankin  is  like,  Okay,  not  water. I'm  going  to  use  a  different  fluid that's  more  like  a  refrigerant, and  I'll  take  care  of  the lower  grade  heat  with  it. The  one  thing  I'll  mention here  is  that  you  can  also  run  CO  two, since  I  mentioned  super critical  here  for  Rankin  and  water, You  can  take  CO  two  and also  run  it  as  a  rankin. What's  interesting  here  is  for  these  cases, while  you  would  guess  that  this  would  be a  vapor  cycle  because  you would  expect  some  condensation  to  occur, the  examples  that  I  looked up  before  I  came  today  actually showed  this  running  all  in the  supercritical  regime, which  resembles  wet? What  cycle  looks  like  that? I  have  a  fluid  that  I  cannot differentiate  from  a  gas  there, and  I  have  no  condensation and  no  phase  change  happening. What  does  that  look  like?  David? No?  Not  a  car  no. The  temperatures  are  not  constant. So  what  power  cycle  did  we just  analyze  before  that  had  no  phase  change? Sorry,  so  the  B  Brayton,  right? That  might  look  like  Brayton,  right? In  Brayton, you  had  basically  the  heat  addition it  out  with  it  there. Okay?  Yeah,  and  you can  read  about  it.  It's  pretty  interesting. So  where  people  talk  about  gaining efficiencies  and  what  they  do, this  is  one  area  of  the  DOE Department  of  Energy  that  was  looking. You  can  read  about  a  ten  megawatt power  plant  that  went  with  it,  okay? Where  is  this  going?  Where  is  this  going? So  that's  one  example  of,  again, where  I  took  two  cycles, and  I  kind  of  put  them  in  series. We  talked  about regenerators  before  with  Braden. We'll  talk  about  that  in the  context  of  Rankin. Another  way  that  you  could  do this  is  the  following. So  another  way  to  boost  efficiency  in a  cycle  is  with  what's  called  reheat. So  what  is  it?  It's  original  rankin. I  got  a  boiler,  a  pump a  condenser,  a  turbine. All  I  do  is  I  take  the  exit, um,  you  know,  fluid  here  out  of  the  turbine. I  run  it  again  through  my boiler  and  then  send  it back  into  a  lower  pressure  turbine that's  connected  in  series,  okay? So  next  lecture  and the  one  after  that  are  going  to  be  like additional  tricks  that  we  can  use  to squeeze  every  bit  of energy  out  of  that  Q  and  we have  to  get  into  work,  okay? With  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. Thank  you  so  much  for  your  participation, especially  yours,  for  letting  me  have  that. I  feel  like  that  was  very  good. Okay?  All  right,  have  a  good  one.
