Alright,  I  got  310. So  we  got  some  ground  to cover  today,  so  I'm  going  to  get  going. Sorry  to  interrupt  good  conversations, hope  about  bears  kicking Tigers  ass  this  weekend  at  Auburn  and  that. All  right.  So  the first  I  want  to  mention  is  with  Perry  Test. We're  going  to  do  kind  of,  like,  a  practice, not  an  exam,  but  a  chance  for  you  to  like, figure  out,  like,  location. Sort  of  the  mechanics  of  it  September 11  and  12th  from  it. So  if  you  go  to  this  website  down  here, it  looks  like  19  of  you already  did  that  successfully, you  should  be  able  to register  for  one  of  the  slots. There. I'm  not  going  to  take  comments  at  this  time, but  maybe  at  the  end,  we  can discuss  if  there's  questions. If  you  have  an  issue  with the  Senate  e  mail  to me  or  the  GSIs  about  it. Major  learning  objective. So  again,  for  now, we're  talking  about  first  law  and  solving some  s  simple  problems using  the  First  law  there. In  terms  of  the  nitty  gritty  after  today, you're  able  to  define  the  concept  of  work, introduce  the  first  law, some  energy  balances  and talk  about  how  fluid  flowing across  a  control  surface. Basically  a  new  control  volume  is going  to  be  able  to  carry  energy  with  it. And  I'm  going  to  have  a  minor  comment about  efficiencies  there. Okay?  So  energy  transfer  by  work. So  here  again,  on  the  left, I'm  drawing  for  you  a  system, the  red  dash  lines. I'm  defining  a  control  volume There.  And  when  we  talk  about  this  process, right  to  have  an  initial  state of  a  final  state, and  I  do  something  to  that  system? Maybe  I  transfer  heat  in  heat  out, work  in  and  work  out. That  transfer  process is  not  a  property,  right? We  did  that  integration  of the  PV  curve  there. I  showed  you  that  it  was  a  path. That's  a  process,  not  a  property. It  doesn't  just  depend  on  the  state of  the  system,  right? And  for  a  closed  system  like  this  where we  don't  transfer  mass  in  and  out, the  only  mechanisms  by which  we  can  transfer  energy  are through  work  or  through  heat.  Right? This  is  the  famous  work. How  many  of  you  know  what  a  jewel  is? How  many  even  know  who  Jewel  was? Couple.  How  many  of  you  know  what his  famous  experiment  was? One.  So  what  was  this  experiment? This  thing,  right?  Yeah,  this  thing, propeller,  a  propeller,  right? So  it's  the  mechanical equivalent  of  heat,  right? So  basically  the  conservation  of  energy, right? The  first  law  there. Okay,  so  again,  so  to  give  it,  like, a  mathematical  definition, so  this  heat  and  work, these  are  boundary  phenomena and  they  are  path  functions. Again,  what  I  drew  for  you last  week  between  the  points  we  drew  a  curve. These  are  path  functions. We'll  get  into  a  bit  of  what  that  means. Again,  some  more  math  to  take  care  of  this. So  these  path  functions, you  know,  when  we're  dealing  with  integrals, and  I'll  do  it  in  an  example here  in  a  second,  you  know, when  we  write  a  differential of  a  path  function, we  do  not  write  DW  at  first. What  you  write  is  Delta,  right? Little  Delta  W  is  then  how  we express  the  differential  of  a  path  function. It's  an  inexact  one.  Why  is  it  inexact? Because  we  don't  necessarily  know complete  information  about  the  process. Once  you  know  complete  information, you  know,  you  get your  little  D  back  there,  right? And  that's  the  same  then  for also  he  transfer. So  we  don't  write  you  know, Little  D  Q  at  first. We  write  Delta  Q  until  we  have the  full  information  about  the  process,  ok? Good.  Some  housekeeping. Give  you  an  example  of  what  I mean  by  this  process. So  here,  this  is  a  video showing  one  of  our  favorite  pistons  again. So  here  you  have  a  volume  at a  pressure  of  1  megapascal  in  both  cases. And  here  you  have  an  external  pressure that's  initially larger  with  some  weights  on  top, and  we'll  remove  those  weights. And  then  here  you  have a  situation  where  there's just  low  pressure  and  then no  weights  with  it. The  term  I'm  going  to  use  for  this, you  can  see  written  is  called  reversible. I  haven't  defined  that  for  you  yet, but  just  mean  that  it's  like a  perfect  process  with, let's  say  no  friction. And  then  here  we  have  irreversible, maybe  there's  some  friction, the  fluids  moving  as  we  expanded. And  what  I  want  you  to focus  on  is  the  outcome, the  fact  that  we  started  you  know, with  a  case  where,  you  know,  initially, everything  was  sort  of  compressed  the  same, and  then  at  the  end  of  it,  the  final  outcome is  that  they  look  different,  okay? So  there's  not  one  path. You  didn't  all  follow  one  path to  this  room,  okay? So  you're  a  little  bit  of  an  inexact, you  know, maybe  differential  there  to  start  with. And  it's  the  same  for  here. You  know,  you  can  follow different  paths  and  then  have different  outcomes  with  it, okay?  Hopefully  that's  convincing. If  not,  you  can  go  and,  you  know, this  is  an  experiment  you  could probably  run  pretty  easy. Does  that  look  like  then  on  a  curve? So  again,  our  favorite  PV  PV  diagram  here. I'm  showing  you  a  plot  then  with two  systems  that  are initially  at  the  same  state, same  pressure,  same  volume, but  they  follow  different  processes  and then  the  same  final  state  in  state  two  here, but  they  follow different  processes  to  get  there. As  we  noted  before,  you  know, the  work  transfer  then in  such  a  process  is  then, if  you  have  a  complete  continuous  curve, is  the  area  below  that  curve. So  clearly,  you  can  see  in  the  two  cases  that the  work  transferred  between process  A  and  process  B  is  different, and  you  can  see  that  with  the  numbers that  I've  written,  okay? You're  with  me?  Not  asleep.  Alright. The  properties,  though,  that's  the  path. The  properties  like  pressure  and  volume. These  are  not  path  functions. These  are  point  functions,  right? You  can  show  on  that  diagram. I  can  say  I'm  at  this  state, and  at  this  state,  I  have  this  pressure. I  have  this  volume, this  temperature.  Yes,  please? Yeah,  so  we're  gonna  explore  that. That's  a  great  question. I'm  gonna  give  an  example in  about  two  slides  here. I'm  gonna  work  out  the  board, how  we  handle  that.  Okay?  Other  questions? Okay,  thank  you  for  that. Exactly.  And  these  only  depend. These  don't  have  a  history  to  them. You  know,  the  pressure  in this  room  doesn't  care how  it  got  to  this  pressure. It  is  this  pressure. It  is  this  temperature.  There  is no  history  to  that. It  doesn't  matter. And  then  these  are  going to  have  exact  differentials. So  maybe  alluding  and  answering a  bit  of  the  question  that  we  had  there. You  know,  in  the  case  of  volume, it's  going  to  be  little  D  V for  a  small  change  with  that. All  right.  The  final  math  part  here  then is  when  we  do  integrate  these  things. So  when  you  integrate,  you  know, from  state  one  to  state  two  of  a  process, let's  say  the  expansion as  we  showed  it  before, right,  there's  going  to  be  a V  two  that's  final. There's  going  to  be  a  V  initial, and  you  can  represent  that  as  a  Delta V.  When  you  do  that  for  work,  right? So  when  I  integrate  now  the  curve  under that  curve  that  I  showed  you  before. So  we  have  the  inexact  differential. But  now  I  know  the  entire path  of  what's  gone. So  I  have  complete  information. Now  I  can  integrate  that, and  I  will  write  w12. I  will  not  write  Delta  W.  Okay? I  like  Greek  as  much  as the  next  person.  Fantastic  Islands. Great  language,  but  you're  not  going  to  use a  Capital  Delta  next  to  a  W  like  that,  right? Not  in  this  class. A.  When  you  know, when  it's  determined,  right? When  when  you  know  the  path  there, then  you  can  integrate,  right? And  until  that  moment,  you  don't,  right? And  there  will  be  some  scenarios  we'll  go through  some  standard  cases  where, you  know,  you'll  automatically know  what  to  substitute  into  it. So  we'll  talk  about  some  expansion and  some  compression  processes, and  you'll  have  some  relations between  P  and  V  that you  just  know  a  priori and  then  could  substitute. But  this  is  a  good  question. Okay.  So  some  examples  of  mechanical  works, so  coming  back  to  our  jewel  experiments. So  before  he  got  started  in  what  he  did, there  was  a  lot  of  work  into cannon  boring,  right? So  people  who  were making  these  things  were,  like, boring  out  the  center  of  these  tubes. And  what  they  would  find  is  that  actually, no  matter  how  much  they  know,  spun  that, they  could  always  make  some amante  heat  with  it,  right? We  know  that  now  is  friction,  right? Friction  is  this,  so  you  could  push  this, and  that  could  generate  and become  heat  through  that  process. So  that's  kind  of  like  a  displacement. The  other  one  that's  very  important, especially  for  mechanical  engineers is  what  we  call  a  shaft  work,  right? So  you  have  electricity  in  this  room,  and, you  know,  most  of  the  world because  you  have  a  turbine. This  spins  a  shaft. That  shaft  is  connected  to  a generated  and  voila, right,  electricity  there. So  this  process  then  of the  work  transfer  to  and  from  shafts, we  call  a  shaft  work,  right? And  I'd  like  to  now  go  through  the  example here  on  the  board  with  the  spring. Right. So  here  what  we  have  is  we  have  a  spring, you  know,  initially  at  a  rest position  here,  hanging,  right? So  this  is  at  equilibrium. So,  you  know,  sum  of forces  is  essentially  zero. I'm  defining  the  direction downwards  as  a  positive  x. And  in  this  case, here  in  the  case  of  the  right, I've  now  applied  a  force, maybe  I've  added  a  mass to  the  end  of  the  spring, and  then  I've  let  it  come  down  to settle  at  some  distance  where  right, the  spring  is  extended, some  amount  further  than  that. The  work,  the  differential  of  work. So  Little  Delta  W, in  this  case,  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  force  times  the  displacement, right,  the  little  differential  with  it. Can  recall  you  know, Physics  one  or  high  school or  whatever,  Hook's  law,  right? So  force  is  equal  to spring  constant  K  times  x. This  is  hook.  All  right? We  can  integrate.  So  we  can substitute  this  into  here and  we  can  integrate. So  if  we  integrate  from  state one  to  state  two  of Delta  W  being  equal  to  zero  to  x  of  k, X  of  the  Tilde,  this  is  a  variable  of integration  because  I  have  an  x  up  there, Delta  X  X  here, right  at  this  point,  I  have complete  information about  what's  happening  here, so  this  is  no  longer,  right? You  know,  we  can  assume that  let  me  say  it  another  way. So  at  this  stage  now,  if  we want  to  convert  this  now into  into  being  Little  Ds, what  we  can  write  is  we  can  say, assuming  that  this  is  a  reversible  process. So  meaning  that  we  basically  very gently  pull  this  down  bit  by  bit. Almost  analogous  to  the  case where  I  let  that  piston  rise, very  slowly  removing  weight  by  weight. Meaning  I  don't  have  any  friction  with  it. These  little  deltas  here  then become  exact  differentials,  right? And  so  if  you  integrate  that, then  what  we  can  write  is  that  w12  is then  equal  to  one  half,  k  x  squared. Right?  As  we  know  it,  right? And  I  understand  that  that's pretty  straightforward,  but,  yeah, hopefully  iuminating  that  into the  steps  that  go  into  that. Alright?  So  that's  a  spring. Staying  with  our  kind  of elementary  school  examples  here. So  in  this  case,  what  I'm showing  you  in  the  video  is something  that  resembles  a  spring. This  is  a  soap  film. And  what  they're  doing  in  this  case, is  they  have  a  film  suspended  between this  frame  and  a  string that  they  can  pull  on  it. And  right  as  they  pull  on  it, right,  they  apply  the  force. They're  doing  work. They're  transferring  work  to the  soap  film,  and  then  they  let  it  go. And  it  returns  back  to the  original  state  there. So  this  seemingly  looks  like  a  spring, right?  They  spring  like  behavior. Cool. So  here's  what  I'd  like  to  do  now. So  I  want  you  to,  again, break  into  the  groups  a  bit. The  prompt  is  this. You're  given  that  you're  stretching a  thin  soap  film  who has  a  surface  tension  sigma. Assume  that  this  is  a  reversible  process, you  know,  as  you  know,  kind  of  intuitively, and  as  I've  described  there. These  are  the  dimensions  of  it. So  you  have  this  frame.  This  is the  film,  and  has  a  width  of  B. Alright. So  it  has  a  width  of  B  there? This  is  the  x  direction. You  apply  a  force  here, you  displace  it  at  Delta  x. The  film  has  two  sides  to  it,  right? So  the  surface  tension  here  is  pulling  on this  side  and  also  on  this  side  of  the  wire. And  I  want  you  to  answer  these  two  questions. The  first  is,  what's the  formula  for  the  force? Alright?  If  you  don't  have  a  greek  keyboard, you  can  write  S  for  Sigma. And  then  what  is the  formula  for  the  work  done by  stretching  the  film  a  distance  Delta  x. Are  there  any  questions about  this  activity  before  we  get started?  It's  all  clear. Okay,  so  take  10  minutes  in  groups. I'm  going  to  circulate and  answer  questions  as  we  go. Okay?  So  nominate  a  recorder, enter  your  group's  first  names and  then  answer  the  two  questions. Thank  you. Can  Why't  you  guys  try  to  open the  pole  and  see  if  that  works  for  me? Does?  Okay,  thank  you. You  got  your  light  on,  by  the  way. Oh,  save  the  battery. Is  it  okay?  Is  the  question  clear? Are  you  you  see  on  the  bottom, there  is  a  free  body  diagram. Cross  section  of  the  fill. Yes.  As  movable  wire. Yes.  And  well,  I  think that  the  length  of  the  wire  off the  bottom  should  be  accounted  for. Yes.  In  our  final  form. Yes.  For  work  force. Let's  do  forse  work.  These  first. That  distance  is  called  B. And  the  surface  tension is  on  both  sides  of  the  wire. Always  two  surface  tensions. Two  Sigma  and  multiply  it  by  the  height. B.  I  feel  like this  put  the  substitute  again,  okay? You're  saying  what's the  unit  then,  if  you  do  that. And  what's  the  unit  of  K? Submitter.  But  you're  thinking  good, guys.  I  really,  this  is  great. How's  the  back  of  the  room? You  already  submitted  wonderful? Sure. M. Let  me  take  it  back  for  a  second. So  let's  just  say  the  foot knowing  anything  about  this  problem, how  would  you  express  word  if  that  you  have the  physic  You  have  that. And  I  come  back  now  and  tell  if  you on  track  as  I  come  back  down  to  the  fourth, so  you  said  you're  si. So  my  question  of  what  is  the  unit  of  sin Okay.  Very  nice  look. Is  it  looking  here,  guys? Good.  Interrupt. Yeah.  Okay.  You're  okay. Hello.  Wonderful.  Wonderful.  Okay. You  guys  are  fast. Okay.  You  guys  also submit  You  submit? I  know.  Okay.  Que  books have  negative  sign  in  front  of  it. So  it  always  negative? Oh.  I'm  not  sure  though. I  thought  it  would  be.  Okay,  fine.  Yeah. So  I  don't  see  why  'cause  it's  positive. Well,  I  guess  it  depends  on  how  you orient  the  force,  right? So  if  I  apply  a  force  to pull  in  this  direction, that's  a  positive  force, what's  the  necessary  displacement  on  X such  that  that  force  is satisfied?  Yeah.  It  depends. I  wouldn't  stress  too  much  on  the  negative. Okay.  Yeah,  this  is  more  of a  magnitudes  C.  It's  less  a  direction. Cool.  What  did  you  guys  submit? A  you're  submitting  now.  Sorry. Okay. Here. So  what  you  have  for your  force  for  your  first  answer? Okay.  Sure.  Sure.  So  my  question  is  in  that I  would  agree  there's  a  nk. Yeah.  So  let  me  think  about  the  links. We'll  give  it  another  minute any  finales  you  have, we  can  start  to  discuss. Wait.  No  responses.  Come  on. All  right. Sure. I'm  going  to  present  now,  okay? All  right. All  right.  Let's  submit I  will  do  my  best. Is  it  there? Is  the  switch  there?  Okay. Well,  half  of  you  are  in  suspense, I  guess,  Let's  see  then. All  right.  There  we  go. 14  with  it. Okay,  so  what's  the  formula  for  force? We  use  Sigma  if  you  can't  do  it. So  we  have  here  in  S  squared  like  this. We  have  a  two  S,  two,  S  SDX. SDX  S  D  x. SPX Okay. So  I've  seen  a  number  of  answers. So  the  one  that  I'm  going  to  go  with  here, a  commonly  seen  one  here  is  on the  F  is  two  Sigma. The  other  one  raised  by the  gentleman,  your  name? David  David. Okay.  You  thought  about  it  for  a  second. Okay,  good.  So  the  other  one was  what  did  you  say,  David? Two  sigma  two  Sigma  x. So  the  David  answer  representing  all  is the  two  Sigma  B,  right? Yes.  Okay.  Was  was  this? Is  there  another  one  that  I  saw? I  saw  one  with  some  squares. You  saw  some  one  with  Sorry? Two  Sigma  little  delta two  Sigma  little  Delta  X. And  I  saw  another  one  with  things scaling  like  X  squared. Okay?  So  let's  start  with  the  first  thing, which  is  the  dimensions. This  is  very  important  engineering. The  very  first  thing  you  should  ever check  in  your  solution  is  that the  dimensions  of  what  you  have match  with  what  you  want,  right? Actually,  most  problems  in engineering  can  be  solved. I'm  kind  of  telling  you now  without  a  formula. All  right? If  I  just  look  at  variables  and  what  I  have, order  a  magnitude,  I  could  tell  you a  lot  of  stuff  with  it,  okay? But  things  like,  you  know, so  what  was  the  unit  of  Sigma? Me. Newton  Meter.  All  right. So  if  you  have  an  answer, you  know,  here  where  I  just  write Sigma  with  F,  right? You  have  a  mismatch  in  unit.  So  you need  a  leng  scale, right  to  make  that  correct. So  that  should  already  rule it  out  in  your  mind,  if  you're  there, double  check  yourself  and  then backtrack  with  the  answer,  right? If  you  have  that  you  know, also  with  the  x  squared, if  you  have  something with  the  x  squared  on  the  Sigma,  right? That's  going  to  be  an  energy  term,  right. It's  a  Newton  meter  thing that's  going  to  be  an  energy  term, so  also  check  yourself  with  it. Alright,  so  I'm  going  to  eliminate the  dimensionally  incorrect  ones, and  I'm  going  to  write  this  one  onto this  side  since  this  is  essentially a  differential  of  of what  we're  writing  on  the  left. Okay.  So  For  those  in favor  of  what's  on  the  left? Anyone?  I'm  not  going  to  call  out  by  name, but  maybe  someone  can  walk  me  through their  thinking  if  their  group had  had  an  answer  like  that. Your  name?  Eddie?  Yeah.  Mm  hm. Okay.  Did  others  have  similar  thinking, or  was  there  another  idea  they  had  with  that? I'm  seeing  a  lot  of  nods. All  right.  Okay.  How  about  for the  column  of  the  two  Sigma  B? I  could  ask  this  here. Sure.  Well,  I  figured that  Actual  proportional  to  how  much  actual It's  about  how  much  is  right? So  you're  saying  basically the  length  of  the  rod,  there, the  more  liquid  that's  in  contact  with  it, the  higher  that  the  force  should  be. Okay.  So  let's  build  on  that,  right? So  the  question  I  want  to  ask  here, do  you  think  if  you  took this  experiment  here  and you  ran  it  with the  hypothesis  that  the further  that  I  stretched  it, what  you're  basically  saying  is that  the  more  that  I  stretch  this, the  higher  that  my  force  will  be,  okay? Do  you  believe  that?  If  you  went and  you  ran  an  experiment  where you  stretched  a  soap  film, there,  do  you  think  that  you  would  measure a  higher  force, the  more  that  you  stretched  it? You  think  so?  You're  convinced?  Of  course. Yes,  I  love  confidence. Alright.  Okay.  What  I'm telling  you  is  that's  not  true. It's  not  true. So,  why?  Why  isn't  it  true,  okay? The  reason  has  to  do  with  the  fact that  the  more  that  you  stretch  this,  okay? You  have  a  certain  number  of  molecules, let's  say,  on  the  surface, you  stretch  it,  there's  going  to  be a  new  one  that  pops  right  into  there. The  Sigma  doesn't  change. Right?  The  force  that you're  pulling  with  that  differential, that  I  said,  it  doesn't  change. Surface  tension  is  a  property of  a  liquid  gas  interface,  right? So  the  more  that  you  pull  it  here, new  ones  is  like  a  little  army,  right? They  run  basically  to the  front  and  then  provide  it. Solids  are  different. Solids  behave  different,  right? They  have  a  lattice,  right?  You  stretch  that. There's  no  new  you  know, there's  no  reinforcements  from  behind that  can  come  in  and  jump  up  to the  interface  there. But  liquids  are  like  that. So  more  that  you stretch  that,  it  doesn't  matter. They  fill  in.  They  fill  in. If  you  want  to  make  it, and  this  is  beautiful. I  love  this  problem.  Because  it seemingly  looks  Hookean,  but  it  is  not. Alright?  If  you  want  to make  it  look  like  Hookean, to  maybe  David  and  I  don't  know, the  gentleman  who  was  now  gone, I  think  he  Was  he  real? Alright.  So  one  way you  might  look  at  it,  though, is  like  many  springs  in  parallel,  right? So  what  he  was  claiming  is  the longer  that  it  is,  the  higher  the  four, which  is  a  lot  like  saying  that  you have  a  bunch  of  springs that  are  in  parallel  acting  it. And  the  longer  that  I  make  it, the  more  springs  that  I  get. Alright? Is  that  fun?  So  for  me. Okay.  So  let's  now  get  to  the  work,  right? So  now,  when  you  come  to  the  work,  right? We  had  asked  this in  So  just  to  make  it  very  clear, sometimes  I  don't  do  this  very  well, so  remind  me,  right? This  is  right, that's  going  to  be  the  answer,  right? The  two  Sigma  two  Sigma  B is  going  to  be  the  force  that's  right. So  if  we  now  come  to  the  work  part of  it,  right? Are  there  questions?  Yes,  please. Great  question.  Because  it's like  two  interfaces. I  have  a  top  liquid  gas  interface, and  I  have  a  bottom  one,  right? So  imagine,  like,  many  springs  on top  and  then  many  springs  on  the  bottom, and  they  act  and  they  act  like  that. So  it's  because  of  that. That's  a  good  question.  Other  questions. How  is  B? So  the  force  here  is  proportional  to the  length  of  the  interface  here.  All  right. So  Sigma  has  units of  Newton  per  meter.  All  right. And  the  point  is that  if  you  were  to  draw  the  force, is  just  saying  oh,  it's  Sigma, as  I  drew  in  the  example,  right? It's  true  you  do  have  Sigma, but  that's  in  a  Newton  meter. And  so  to  get  that  into  force, you  have  to  multiply  by  a  length, and  surface  tension  is  proportional  to the  length  of  the  liquid  solid  contact  there. So  the  length  that  it's in  contact  with  the  rod, that's  gonna  give  you  the  force. Okay.  Other  questions? Yes,  please. S.  So  that's  what  hook  is,  right? Hook  is  a  solid  is  a  solid  spring. And  you're  gonna  have a  homework  problem  where you  actually  go  in  with a  young's  modulus  and  you work  out  what  is  the  spring constant  for  a  solid  and  the work  that  you  do. But  if  you  take  a  spring  or  any  solid  rate, the  more  that  you  try  to  pull  it, the  harder  it  is  to  pull,  right? So  Yes,  in  the  back  there. That  is  correct.  This  is  what  I'm  claiming. Yes.  Yes.  Other  questions. Okay. So  if  we  move  on  to the  second  question,  which  is, what's  the  formula  for  work  done  by stretching  in  D  X? You  know,  in  this  case,  what  is,  you  know, the  work  that  you're  doing,  as  we  showed, you  know,  here  is  equal  to  the  force by  the  displacement. So  then  we're  not  talking  about the  B  anymore  in  the  length or  we're  talking  about  how far  that  we  pull  it. So  in  that  case,  relying  on the  knowledge  that  you  had  from Hook's  law  is  going  to  be  valuable  there. The  difference  is,  of  course,  going  to  be the  F  that  you  put  in,  right? So  in  this  case,  I'm  assuming  that most  of  the  answers  you're  going  to end  up  with  are  either  a  substitution, mostly  a  substitution  of this  formula  and  integrating like  what  we  had  there, or  for  the  other  cases, the  two  Sigma,  the  two  Sigma,  B. So  two,  S,  b,  d  x,  y. Exactly.  This  would  be,  I  suppose,  then, like  the  integration  of maybe  that  two  S.  So  again, here  in  these  cases,  I  would  say,  look  at. Check  yourself  in  the  dimensions on  on  what  you have  with  with  the  answers, two  S  X,  W  B  six  squared. Yeah.  So  dimension  dimensionally  correct, but  right  if  you  were  to  take this  and integrated  as  you  head  it  through  there, right  the  Delta  W  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  F  Delta  x? If  you  substitute  then the  F  value  that  we  have  there, it's  going  to  be  two  Sigma B  Delta  X  as  the  right  answer? If  you  had  it  here  with  this, your  Delta  W,  again, is  F  Delta  x. This  is  then  going  to  be  two  Sigma  X  Delta  x. All  right.  And  if  we're  talking about  grading  on  an  exam,  right? So  if  you  had  the  first  part wrong,  but  you  write  something  like  this, you  get  points  for  this  because the  only  the  mistake  happened  here, but  the  logic  of  this  with the  work  was  correct. But  this  is  the  right  answer. Are  there  any  questions  about  that? Als  Clar?  Cool.  All  right. Thank  you.  If  I  now  come  back, So  there's  other  examples  of  work. So  you  have  here,  right  electrical  work. So  when  a  heat  transfer, this  involve  temperature  difference,  right? So  if  you  have  energy  transfer  to  the  system, when  there's  differences  in  temperature, that's  going  to  be  heat  transfer. If  you  have  energy  transfer, when  everything  is  you  know, isothermal  there  like  this, it's  going  to  be  a  work. So  you  can  do  electrical.  You  can imagine  a  control  volume  like  this. You  have  a  wire  that  you  run  through  that, you  apply  a  potential an  electrical  potential  across  the  wire. The  wire  has  an  intrinsic  resistance. That  potential  with  that  resistance is  going  to  lead  to  a  current. And  then  these  would  be like  the  formulas  then  for the  work  transfer  rates into  the  system,  right? So  voltage  current,  current  squared  resistor, voltage  squared  divided  by  resistance,  right? Good.  How  we  come  to  our  first  law,  right? So  the  first  law  essentially  is what  we  call  the conservation  of  energy,  right? This  is  something  that  had  gone on  for  quite  some  time, the  person  who's  credited with  sort  of  writing  it  in the  most  coherent  way first  was  Hulus  Robert  Van  Meyer. He  was  a  German  physician in  the  19th  century. And  that's kind  of  maybe  an  interesting  thing. He  wasn't  an  engineer,  wasn't  a  physicist. He  was  a  physician,  a  doctor and  had  an  interesting  story  and  how  he came  to  to  discover  that  there. But  again,  in  the  context  of  what  we've looked  at,  you  know,  before,  right, if  I  put  you  know, work,  you  know,  onto a  system,  that  can  become  heat. I  could  take  that  heat  and maybe  use  that  to  expand  it, but  it's  all  transformations. You're  not  creating  energy. You're  not  destroying  it. It's  only  transforming  there. How  do  we  write  that  in  accounting? Speak?  So  the  first  law  is generally  written  like  this. You  have  the  change  in  the  internal  energy  of your  control  volume  is  equal  to the  heat  transferred  to it  minus  the  work  transferred. Excuse  me,  out  of  it,  right? This  is  the  one  convention  that  we have  for  the  control  volumes  there. You  can  generalize  this.  You  can  say,  k, this  is  the  total  change in  the  energy  of  my  control  volume, and  that's  going  to  be  equal  to the  energy  coming  in  minus the  energy  coming  out,  right? So  that's  your  bank  account. That's  your  job,  your  salary. You  know,  that's  the  expenses  at, you  know,  Safeway  or  whatever,  right? So,  which  is  so  expensive.  All  right. So  this  is  what  it  is,  right? For  the  closed  systems,  as  I mentioned,  when  it's  a  closed  system, you  can  only  transfer  energy  into  it  through heat  transfer  or  through  work  transfer. But  there  are  plenty  of  engineering  systems out  there  that  are  also  open,  right? Mass  can  flow  in  or  out. I  like  a  water  heater,  even  this  room. You  can  draw  this  as  a  control  volume. You  can  have,  you  know, air  that's  moving  in  and  out. And  those  streams, right  of  mass  that's  flowing, right  can  carry  energy  with  them. It  can  be  kinetic  energy. There's,  maybe  a  potential  energy  difference across  it.  It  could  be  hot,  right? It  could  be,  you  know, carrying  internal  energy. There  How  do  we  write  that? So  the  way  that  one  writes  that not  for  the  closed  control  volume, but  now  the  open  one, the  way  that  we  write  that  is  do  we say  that  the  energy, going  in  minus  the  energy  going  out, is  then  the  net  change in  the  energy  of  the  system. So  that,  as  I  said,  could  be internal  energy,  kinetic  potential. And  this  term  then  should  be  equal to  the  heat  in  minus  the  heat  out, the  work  in  minus  the  workout, the  energy  of  the  mass  stream  flowing  in, minus  the  amount  coming  out,  right? And  of  course,  just  to  be  like, very  confusing,  and  this  is  not  my  fault. This  is  I  want  to  blame  a  book. The  book  does  it  is  that  in  these  cases, when  you  write  with  this  notation  of in  and  out  on  the  right  hand  side  here, these  are  positive  quantities,  right? You've  already  done  the  negatives. You're  taking  care  of the  signs  already,  right? In  physics,  like,  you  know, we  had  this  discussion  here, you  draw  the  orientation of  the  forces  already  there, you're  only  dealing  then  with  the  magnitudes. It's  the  same  in  this  case. So  I  mentioned  on  Wednesday,  you  know, a  lot  of  times  we're  dealing  with  cycles. So  if  you  have  a  closed  system,  you  know, they're  undergoing  a  cyclic  transformation, right? The  net  change  and  the  energy of  the  system  is  going  to  be  zero, because  you're  basically  returning  to exactly  where  you  started,  right? There's  no  difference  that we  have  there,  right? So  the  energy  coming  in  minus the  energy  coming  out,  it's  actually  zero. Consequence  of  this  is  that the  net  he  transferred into  the  system  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  net  work  transfer out  of  it,  right? That's  a  statement  of  the  first  law,  right? You're  keeping  track  of  all  of  it. It  may  not  hit  you  now,  but  this  is, like,  actually  kind  of,  you  know, a  little  profound  when  you  think  when  you think  about  it  enough. And  as  we  said  before,  right, the  work  then  is  nothing but  as  we  did  in  the  example  before, it's  going  to  be  basically the  area  within  the within  the  enclosed  circle  on  a  plot on  a  PV  diagram  like  that. Alright,  so  that's  the  consequence. What  I'd  like  to  do  now  with  the remaining  7  minutes,  though, is  to  go  through  a  simple  problem then  with  the  First  law  there. So  I'm  drawing  for  you  this  diagram  here. Right.  You  have  your  this  box. This  is  a  little  bit like  the  jewel  experiment. You  have  a  paddle,  right? That's  spinning  on  the  insides. You  have  some  work  transfer  shaft  work  that's transferring  right  energy  into  the  system. You  have  some  heat  losses  out  of  it. You  have  some  initial  internal  energy of  within  your  control  volume. And  the  question  is  then, what's  the  final  one  there,  right? Where's  my  marker?  Alright.  Okay. So  What  isn't  written here  is  about  the  Q  in,  right? So  we  have  the  Q  in. Maybe  I'll  move  this  side. Well,  yeah,  it's  fine. So  our  Q  in  is  equal  to  zero,  right? We're  not  given  the  information about  that.  Our  Q  out. Right?  We're  told  is  this  500  kilos. The  shaft  work  in. So  W  shaft  in  is equal  to  100  Kilo  joules. What  I  want  to  note  is  that the  Delta  E  of  the  system is  it's  equal  to changes  in  the  internal  energy. It  could  also  be  things  like  kinetic  energy. It  could  be  potential  energy. But  for  a  system  like  this, we  don't  have  any  changes. This  box  is  not  like  moving. You  know,  the  thing  is  not  basically changing  heights  of  the  change  in the  energy  of  the  system  is  then  going  to  be a  U  two  minus,  a  U  one. Right. This  is,  by  definition,  right, equal  to  the  energy  coming  in, minus  the  energy  coming  out. Can  expand  this.  So  like  the  formula  that  I showed  you  before,  right?  This  would  be  Q, N  minus  Q. This  is  plus  N minus  W.  And  then  this  would  be plus  E  of  the  mass coming  in  minus  E  of  the  mass. Coming  out.  Apologies  to  the  recording. It's  cut  off  on  the  side  there. This  is  going  to  be  simplified,  right, so  our  QN  is  zero. So  that's  gone  Sac. We  don't  have  any  work  transfer  out. That's  gone,  and  we  don't  have any  mass  flowing  in  or  out. So  those  two  terms  are  cut  off. We  already  preemptively  cut  it  off  for the  for  the  video. So  what  this  then  looks  like  in  the  end  is W  n  minus  Q  Q. We  can  substitute  the  values,  right? So  we  have  100  kilo  joes  of the  shaft  work  being  transferred in,  we  have  100  KG. We  have  the  heat  transfer  out, which  I  didn't  write  on  here  is 500  Kilojoules,  so  -500  kilojoules. And  so  in  the  end, that  net  change  is  -400  kilojoules. We  can  recall,  right? We  we  wrote  up  here  before, if  we  wanted  to  determine  the  U  two. So  from  those  formulas  there, what  What  we  can  say  is  that  u two  is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  u one  plus  this  difference  here, which  is  then  the  -400  Calvin. Then  u  two  is  equal  to  u  one, which  is  800  kilojoules, 800  kilojules,  and  then  minus  the  400  kilos. So  in  the  end,  then  you  have  a  400  kilojules as  your  answer  for  u  two. Okay.  Yes,  please. So  I'm  rearranging,  right? So  here  I  can  take  u  two is  equal  to  then  with  rearranging, this  is  one  plus  e  n  minus  E  out. One  is  what?  1  second.  What?  No,  one. Sorry,  one  is  800.  That's  not  negative. This  is  800  Kilos. One  tech,  everyone,  please. Plus,  what  you've  calculated  here, which  is  the  negative  400. 800  -400  is  400. Okay.  Other  questions. Yes,  please. So  here's  what  I  want  to  say. So  you  have  a  pre  existing. You  all  have  biases,  right? You  have  memories  of  what  you  had,  okay? Before.  What  I'm  telling  you  right  now, just  like  what  you  learned  before, when  you  draw  orientations  and  forces,  right? They  have  effects  then  on the  signs  that  you  work  with. What  I'm  telling  you  right  now is  when  I  write  in  this  notation, what  I'm  talking  about  differences in  the  system  is  in, you  know,  minus  out  there. I've  already  predefined  this. So  then  I'm  writing  ins. I'm  writing  outs.  These  are  then you're  dealing  in  magnitudes,  right? This  is  accounting,  right? This  is  money  into  the  bank. This  is  money  out  of  the  bank,  right? And  then  this  is  what  the  overall  change  in the  account  that  you  have  there,  right? It  will  become  clear  with  time,  but it's  very  powerful  stuff. Bit  by  bit,  we'll  go  into  this, and  you'll  be  able  to  analyze some  pretty  good  stuff. With  this,  I'm  going  to  finish  for  it today.  We'll  do  on  this  example. We'll  start  with  this  example. The  final  thing  I  want  to  say  before  we  go, And  Rod  on  the  Golden  Bears  this  weekend  is that  this  control  volume, right,  all  of  this  so  far. I've  talked  about  kind  of a  steady  state  problem,  right? But  looking  at  unsteady  problems, looking  at  control  volumes,  right? This  problem  on  global  warming is  nothing  but  that,  right? You  have  too  much,  right? That's  coming  in, not  enough  that's  going  out, and  the  consequence  is we  have  more  energy  here,  right, which  we  experience  as a  warming  part  of  it,  okay? So,  with  that,  I'm  gonna  leave  you  on  it. I  believe  I've  crossed  off on  this,  and  I  can  check  it. By  the  end  of  Monday, the  next  week,  we'll  be  able  to do  the  last  one,  okay. Thank  you  very  much. Everyone  have  a  great  weekend, and  I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions.
