Okay.  So  today,  we're  going  to continue  with  the  cycles. And  so  you  went  with  doctor  Regula  gata  on Monday  with  the  reheat  and  regeneration. I  heard  you  did  one  cycle. I'd  recommend  having  a  look  at  the  other  one. Those  are  not  the  types  of things  that  we're  going  to  give  an  exam. I'm  not  going  to  ask  you a  regeneration  or  a  reheat  problem, but  I  think  you  should have  awareness  about  it, because  this  is  essentially  how we  take  you  know, these  cycles  and  actually  get from  those  40%  efficiencies, those  50  or  whatever. Also,  I  think  if  you  can  really solve  something  like  that,  you  get  it. Like,  you  get  like  the  course,  right? So  cause  you  have  to  apply really  all  the  elements  that  you've learned  into  it,  right? So  today,  we're  going  to talk  about  the  Sterling  cycle. How  many  have  you  heard  of  a  Sterling  cycle? A  few?  Why  do  we  care  about  Sterling? What's  interesting  about  it? It's  a  complicated. It  can  be  complicated.  I  think I  think  I've  seen  examples of  working  fluids  of  Air. Another.  Interesting  feature  about  it. I  know  from  that  they're  very  quiet. So  be  quiet.  Another. So  we  continue  in this  course  towards  perfection. So  Sterling  is  an  example  of a  cycle  with  pretty  high  efficiency. And  today,  we're  going  to  look  into understanding  why  that  is. These  are  complicated  systems. So  before  we  go  into  it, I'm  going  to  start  with  something  simple. And  there's  something  simpler  than a  soap  film  or  a  bubble. You  pretty  familiar. The  same  example  we  did  before,  right? So  we  looked  at  a  liquid  film of  constant  volume.  Right? That  was  attached  to  a  wire  frame. And  you  analyzed  the  change and  energy  of  this  film  as  you  extended  it. And  out  of  that,  you  were  able  to say  something  about  the  force  applied necessary  force  to  apply in  the  work  that  you  need to  put  in  in  order  to  move it  from  here  to  here. So  I  showed  you  the  fallacies of  why  this  isn't  a  spring,  right? Cause  a  spring  there, the  more  you  pull  it, right,  the  higher  the  force  is? We  something  like  this,  the  more  you  pull  it, the  force  is  the  same,  right? But  in  a  sense,  in  both  cases, you  would  integrate  that  force over  the  displacement  that you  have  and  you'd  have a  change  of  energy,  right? And  the  only  thing  you  really need  to  know  that  you  probably don't  have  prior  experience  with  technically, although  you  probably  have  some  intuition  is this  concept  of  surface tension  or  surface  energy. There  in  short.  If  we think  about  it  on  an  energy  basis, it's  the  amount  of  work  you  need to  provide  in order  to  create  an  area, a  new  area  of  that  surface,  right? You  all  with  it  that  Kartik put  you  to  sleep  or  he  took all  your  energy  on  Monday  and  didn't  leave any  in  the  control  volume  for  today. Okay.  But  here's  what  I  want  to  do. I  want  to  look  today  at essentially  analyzing  this  cycle.  All  right? So  again,  we're  taking  this  system  here, and  we're  going  to  run  it  as a  thermal  engine  based  on  surface  energy. If  you  want  to  ask  yourself,  is this  possible  to  do,  it  is. Right?  It  is  possible  to  do. There's  some  great,  nice  papers  from a  Russian  group  that  went and  analyzed  with  it. If  you  have  questions  about  it,  you can  ask  me  before,  after. Class,  in  short,  what this  engine  looks  like  on  a  T  A  diagram. A  A  here  is  the  area,  right? The  volume  of  this  liquid  is  constant. So  you're  dealing  with changes  in  the  area  as  you stretch  and  contract,  right? Is  we  have  a  hot  temperature  TH. We  have  a  low  temperature  T L.  We  have  states  one,  two,  three, four,  right  so  the  cycles  clockwise, like  most  of  the  engines  we  know. And  what's  relevant  is  that we  increase  the  area  1-2  Delta  A, and  we  decrease  the  area 3-4  Delta  A.  Alright? The  first  thing  I  want  you  to  know,  alright? The  second  thing  is  that  surface  tension, its  property  depends  on  temperature. Alright? So  if  I  take  water  at  room  temperature, and  I  measure  this  tension,  right, it's  going  to  be  72  millinewtons  a  meter. Alright?  As  I  start  to  heat it  up  towards  its  boiling  point, it's  going  to  drop  off  dramatically, which  makes  sense,  right? Because  what  is  boiling,  it's  nothing  but those  molecules  getting  loose. Alright? And  the  probability  that  it's  going  to  get loose  depends  on  how  cohesive  it  is  there. So  as  I  increase  the  temperature,  you  know, you  can  have  some  expectation that  the  surface  tensions should  should  decrease,  right? You  know,  believe  me  go  home, make  some  bara  and  see  as you  start  to  boil  it  if it  starts  to  bubble  easier  there  at  the  top. That  also  has  to  do  with  some  starch. Anyway,  so  you  have  this,  right? So  the  surface  tension  decreases as  the  temperature  increases,  right? That's  your  formula.  U And  the  second  thing  I'm  giving  you  as a  piece  of  information  is  that  the  change, you  can  relate  changes  in entropy  to  changes  in  area. We'll  cover  in  a  couple  of  weeks how  we  go  between  these. In  short, it's  called  Maxwell's  relations,  right? So  I'll  teach  you  how  to  do  this. For  now,  I'm  giving  you  a  relation  between change  and  entropy  and  change  in  area. And  the  relation  between them  depends  on  the  derivative of  surface  energy  with  respect to  D  Sigma  DT  there,  right? Alpha  Beta  or  constants, again,  A  is  an  area,  T  is  temperature, SS  entropy,  C  a  specific  heat, right,  you  have  that. And  I  have  three  questions  for  you. So  the  first  is,  what's  the  network?  Alright? As  we've  been  doing,  right  a  bunch of  times  now,  you  should,  you  know, net  work  should  be kind  of  a  second  habit  there. What's  the  Q  in? Right?  Remember,  what's  Q,  your  definition of  Q  there. And  if  I  told  you  that  if The  heat  that  we  need  to  cool  down 2-3  was  transferred  into  four  to  one. What  is  the  efficiency,  right? And  that  last  step  is an  important  feature  of the  Sterling  cycle,  right? Is  it  called  regeneration,  right? Essentially,  you  store,  right, this  heat  that  you  transfer  out  here  somehow, and  then  you  transfer  it  back  in.  Alright? There's  a  lot  of  information. So  I'm  saying  about  10  minutes. So  any  questions  before  we  get  started? Okay.  Hopefully,  Are  Wheaties  this  morning. Alright,  10  minutes,  I'll  be  circulating, and  then  we'll  come  together  and analyze  it  together,  right?  Great. Okay,  great. So  TL  and  our  T,  right? All  right.  We  have network  All  right. We  got  some  answers  here.  All  right. I  see  here  network  Sigma  Dt. So  for  Part  A,  W  net  is  a Sigma  Delta  T.  I  see  a  Delta  A, Alpha  t  minus  TC  enclosed  area. Okay.  T  Delta  TDS. T  Delta  A,  T  Delta  A  area  in  the  box, T  Delta  A,  T  Delta  A,  T  Delta  A. Okay.  So  I  see  a  lot  here,  right? They  see  quite  a  lot  here. I  saw  quite  a  few  with  this  some  version  of a  Delta  A  Delta  T.  So  let's  get  started. I'll  make  this  a  full. It's  not  really  recorded, but  I  guess  I  can  go. So  maybe  we  can  start  with  the  enclosed  area. So  does  anyone  from  a  group  with  this  care to  comment  on  enclosed  area? They're  thinking  here.  Sure,  Petro. Similar  to  a  TV  diagram.  Mm  hm. Sure.  If  we  think  about something  like  a  TS  diagram, so  if  I  take  something  like  a  TS diagram  and  I  do  the  same, and  I  look  at  the  area. So  in  this  case,  I  have  a  unit, essentially  at  some  constant  k here  across  here,  some  value. And  then  I'm  multiplying  that  essentially  by a  joules  per  kilogram  Kalvin. And  in  this  case,  I  ends  up with  the  joules  per  kilogram, right?  This  is  sort  of  the  thinking. If  we  come  down  to  something  like  the  TA, if  I  go  with  the  TA  here, I  have  sort  of  again,  sort  of  a  temperature, let's  say a  Delta  temperature  based  on  Calvin. And  then  here  I'm  going  into  the  area, which  is  then  going  to  bring  me  into a  meter  squared,  right? So  I  think  sort  of  correct  thinking, but  then  what  do  you  think  we  need  here? Something  else.  That's  the  something  else. Okay.  How  about  the  W  net here,  Sigma  Delta  T? There's  no  wrong  answers  after  T  85,  right? So  although  I  will say  this  is  sort  of  things  intention, so  I'm  not  sure. Maybe  you  used  all  that  today. This  Alpha  Delta  T.  Se  some  here. So  what's  the  thinking  in  this  case? I  mean,  I  can  tell  you what  my  own  thinking  would  be. Basically  Delta. Basically  theta minus  Sigma  equal  beta  minus. All  right.  So  I  held  it  here. So  I  said  work  was essentially  a  Sigma  Delta A.  I  could  follow  that. Within  Sigma,  I  have  a  Beta  minus  Sigma  T and  the  next  step  was  Oh, I'm  sorry,  Beta  minus  apologies. Beta  minus  Alpha  t. In  Sigma  beta  minus  eta minus  e. All  right. So  here  this  is,  right? And  then  this  would  be  basically  W, and  then  W  net  is  W  N  minus  W. T  one.  Okay. So,  I  think  it's sort  of  how  I  presented  it  here,  right? Okay.  So  if  we  have  then this  with  the  difference, so  I  have  then  essentially  a  Delta  A. The  Betas  cancel,  right? So  if  I  subtract  this  from  this, the  Betas  basically  cancel. And  we  can  put  the  negative  sign  there. Let's  say  that's  out. So  if  I  put  sort  of  a  negative  sign in  front,  as  you  mentioned, then  I  have  Alpha  TH  minus  Alpha  TC. So  then  I  have  Delta  A, Alpha  TH  minus  TC.  Okay. All  right.  This  is  another  answer, which  then  corresponded  to  Delta  like  this. Okay.  Good.  All  right. So  we've  done  this  one. We've  done  this  one.  No  one cared  to  speak  up  for  this  one. And  then  the  Delta  T  Delta  A. The  way  that  I  look  at that  is  that  that's  similar in  thinking  to  the  area  thinking. So  that,  you  know,  we  have  this  times  this, and  there's  kind  of  a  missing  something. Do  any  groups  care  to  comment  on  this  one, if  I  missed  something  in  their  thinking? Any  groups  want  to  say something  else  that's  not  up  here? Now,  having  heard  all  that. Lively  bunch  today.  Okay. So  if  we  come  back  to  the  example  of stretching  of  the  film. So  if  just  think  about  the film  itself  for  a  second, and  then  I  can  tell  you  what  I think  is  sort  of  right  there,  you  know, what  is  the  work  you  need  to  put in  to  stretch  the  film? So  what's  the  force? Right?  Or  what's,  you  know, let  me  say  it  another  way. You  know,  you  have  here  Sigma,  right? You're  given  right,  Delta  A. Right?  So  what's  that  change  in  energy  then? There,  it's  it,  right? So  you  have  Sigma  Delta  A,  right? This  has,  by  define,  you  know, this  is  units  of Jews,  right?  So  that's  energy. You  have  energy  there  into  the  point  of what  right,  Max  Max,  right? Yeah.  What  Max  and the  group  said  is that  that's  exactly  it,  right? You  have  a  Delta  A  and  a  Sigma, and  then  that  gives  you  the  work. You  have  two  work  terms,  right? So  within  this  cycle, right, you  have  two  swings  in  terms  of  the  area. So  I  think  towards  what Pietro  was  thinking  about,  right? We  had  these  kinds  of  lines  that  we  were, That  we're  thinking  about.  And  usually in  thinking  like  something  like  Carino, you're  going  to  have  a  heat  transfer  line and  a  work  transfer  line  there. And  so  this  top  one  is then  right  the  work  out. That's  an  expansion  process. So  one  could  think  of  that  as  like a  P  DV  type  of  thing. But  in  our  case  here,  right, it's  a  Sigma  DA ultimately  that  gives  you  that, right?  So  that's  very  good. And  then,  yeah,  I  guess,  in  this  case, we  took  it  a  step further  than  I  would  have  at  this  stage, and  then  substituted  the  rest  of  the  value. So  the  rest  is  basically  alga,  but  right, you're  substituting  the  Sigma  value  that  I gave  you  there  into  that  and then  working  through  to  get  the  net. And  so  this  answer,  you  know, what  I  would,  you  know, find  acceptable  would  be some  version  of  something  like  this, but  then  Max  and the  group  that  what  they  had  there, that's  also  completely  correct  to  do. All  right.  Very  good. So  step  one.  All  right. Step  two.  QN. All  right.  So  QN, I've  got  a  T  L  Alpha  D  A, C  times  t  minus  T  L.  Integral, Beta  minus  Sigma,  D  A. That's  great.  What  is  that  Amji?  That's  nice. TDS.  TTS.  A.  What's  the  red? What's  this? Delta  Delta.  That's  nice. Okay.  We  don't  get  the  Greek. We  get  the  Delta.  Cool. A  Delta  A  TH  minus  TL. We're  getting  creative  on  the  keyboard today.  Alpha  TA. Alpha  T  A. D.  DQ  DT  DA. All  right.  TDS  one, zero  ADA  Alpha  D. Beta  minus  Alpha  t  two  minus  t  one, TH  Alpha  Delta  A. S  one  minus  S  four. T.  Why  can't  I  T  times  Delta  A. M.  Okay,  that's  a  lot. That's  a  range  of  answers. I'm  going  to  try  to  see  if  there's  a  theme. I  would  say  probably  these  two  are  kind  of similar  in  thinking  here. An  Alpha  Alpha  Delta  A, Delta  T.  Maybe  that's similar  D  This  is  probably  T,  right? TDA  four. This  is  Alpha  D  A  is  another  one. Okay.  Alright,  now  I'm  going  to  call  that out  cause  I'm  not  sure. Jason,  would  your  group  care  to  comment on  how  you  guys approach  this  one  or  your  thinking  here? Is  the  second  part. So  there's  a  question  about  QN. So  what  is  that  he  transferred  in? Yes.  Yeah. There  you  go. Exactly.  Okay,  that's  great. So  the  thinking  was  you  looked  at  this, you  saw  where  you  had the  jump  in  temperature, and  that  must  be the  heat  transfer  part  of  it. That's  good  thinking,  right? So  here,  exactly. Okay.  Up  front  here? Who  is  a  group  I  haven't  seen? You  guys? D.  So  we  took D  Sigma  dt  is  equal  to  d  by dt  of  Beta  minus  Alpha  t.  And  out  of  this, you  have  negative  Alpha,  right?  Aga. So  then  we  go  dS  is  equal  to negative  D  sigma  d  D,  right? This  is  basically negative  Alpha  goes  into  here. Negative  Alpha  of  a  negative  D  Sigma  dt is  basically  Alpha  DA. S.  DS  is  equal  to  dQ  over  t. Sorry.  And  then  you integrate  or  here,  I'll  move  it  up. D  S  is  equal to  Delta  Q  over  t.  You  integrate. What's  the  next  step? Sorry,  sorry. I  see. Here  then  this  becomes Alpha  D  is  equal  to  Delta  Q  over  t d.  By  the  chief of.  Like  this. Okay.  And  then  you  have  Q  is  what  T. T  treats.  Okay. Bold.  Bold  choices.  No,  no. It's  k.  No,  no.  Be  bold,  right? So  we  pull  the  T  out.  You  also pull  the  Alpha  out,  then  O. All  right.  So  you'd  have  here,  T  Alpha. And  then  out  of  this,  I  would  say  your  Q is  then  T  Alpha  Delta  A,  right? Okay. Anyone  else  have  something  else? Here,  I  have  all  the  pieces. I  can  solve  the  puzzle. Yes?  Oh,  so  you took  I'm  sorry.  Say  one  more  time? Yes.  Yes.  Beta  minus Beta  Beta  minus  Sigma. How  do  you  put  Beta  minus  Sigma  into  here? Oh,  I  see.  I  see. Okay. So  you  were  saying  Beta  is  something  that  I know  and  with  this  work  it  in. Okay.  Yeah.  But  you  basically followed  sort  of  the  similar  thinking. Okay.  Anyone  else? Another  group?  Okay,  so there's  something  interesting  here,  right? So  what  I  notice  is  that  we have  from  I  think  Jason's  group  there, right,  identified  that  we're  going  to  have a  Q  in  clearly  because  we're  jumping, you  know,  the  A  is  kept  constant,  right? I  don't  have  an  expectation of  work  transfer  there. I  have  a  jump  in  temperature. Therefore,  I  must  have  a  QN  that's  this. And  then  from  what  I  want  to  call  math  here, I've  also  demonstrated  you  know, drawing  on  our  Calc  resources that  there's  a  Q  in  from  this,  right? And  so  the  answer  to  this  is  yes, right?  So  you  have  Q  in. And  what's  interesting  about the  Sterling  is  that there's  kind  of  a  Q  in  4-1, and  also  one  to  two,  right? And  The  point  is  that  the  four  to  one,  right? Kind  of  Q  in  actually  comes  from  the  Q out  from  q23,  right? That's  the  whole  point of  the  regeneration,  right? In  order  to  cool  here 2-3,  I  have  to  take  heat  out. And  in  sterling,  what  you  do  is you  take  that  heat  kind  of  out, in  a  sense,  not  really  out, but  you  take  it  out  and you  store  it  in  something,  right? You  basically  hold  it  as a  thought  experiment, but  you  hold  it  in  something. And  then  later  on,  you  take  that  heat, and  then  you  transfer  it  in  when you  need  it  4-1,  right? So  the  truth  for  this  cycle  is  that  actually, so  while  that's  both  right, and  you  can  run  a  sterling  cycle without  a  regenerator where  you  would,  you  know, heat  in  and  heat  in  and then  heat  out  and  heat  out, if  you  want  to  get  to  the  high  efficiencies, you're  going  to  have this  regeneration  process where  you  take,  you  know, this  C  t  two  minus  t  three, hold  it,  and  then  take  that  amount  of  heat and  transfer  it  to  warm  4-1,  right? I  don't  have  much  of  an  imagination, so  I'm  not  gonna  stand  here  and pretend  to  show  you  what  that  looks  like. You  can  Google  or  ask  with  it. But  I  will  say  that  with  this  system, you  could  think  about  with  that  soap  film, right  or  that  liquid. You  could  think  about  putting  it in  contact  with  something, something  that's  like  a  lump  body, like  a  metal  or  something  else that  you  could  transfer  the  heat to  and  from,  alright? Good.  So  the  combination  of  those  two,  right? So  really,  then  this  is this  term  is  right  effectively  the  Q. This  is  basically  q41  there. And  in  this  case, with  the,  the  Q  four,  right? This  is  basically  your  q34, the  T  Alpha  T  Alpha  Delta  A  with  it,  right? And  so,  you  know, if  you  were  going  to  write  then the  overall  Q  in  All  right. So  the  overall  QN  is  then, q41  plus  the  Q  Q  one. And,  QN. Hold  on  a  second.  Yeah,  Q  one. And  then  the  other  QN  is  going  to  be a  Q  This  is  Q  two, sorry,  Q  two,  right? So  then  the  other  one  is  basically q12,  right? And  so  in  short,  that's going  to  be  your  specific  heat. You  T  high  minus  your  t  low, and  then  plus  this TH  times  Alpha  Delta Delta  A  there,  right? We  in  short  Delta  A  then  really  is the  A  two  minus  the  A  one,  right? All  right. And  when  we  come  to  parts  mix. Go  ahead.  Yeah,  so there  would  be  then  the  opposite,  right? So  then  if  we  looked  at  that, so  then  a  Q  out, which  we  didn't  ask  for,  right? So  Q  clearly,  what  would  be the  Q  out  then,  for  the  32? Sorry. Yeah,  C  dealt  to  T,  right? So  basically  you  have  a  C.  And  then  if  I'm looking  at  it  from  if I'm  talking  about  it  as  an  out, term  if  I  already  write  the  t  out, then  it's  going  to  be  writ  a  t  two minus  t  three, to  give  you  that  part  of  it. And  then  the  other  side  is  going to  be  plus  then a  t  Alpha  A  two  minus  A, basically  A  two  minus  A  one,  right? Good. All  right.  Final  part, putting  it  all  together. Alright,  so  the  thing  I  want  to  comment here  before  I  get  to  into  it, is  that  the  whole  point about  the  regeneration,  right? The  regeneration  is  that, you  know,  this  is  no  longer  a  QN,  right? If  I  analyzed,  my  whole  system is  a  control  volume,  right? This  is  this  heat is  not  leaving  my  system,  right? I'm  basically,  like,  storing it  in  a  sense,  right? I'm  taking  it  out, but  I'm  not  letting  it  leave. And  then,  you  know,  when  I  come  back, so  I  take  it  out  at  two, three,  and  then  I  hold  it, and  then  I  transfer  it  back  in with  41,  right?  Okay. All  right.  Okay,  so  here  we  have,  right? So  Ia,  By  definition  is  equal  to the  W  net  divided  by  our  Q,  right? That's  perfectly  correct. And  then  here  we  have  a  one  minus  Q  out, divided  by  a  Q  in, and  we  say  that  it's  tending towards  one  as  an  answer,  less  than  Carno. That's  a  safe  bet.  That's  house  money M.  You're  going  to  win  every  time  on  that. So  we  have  a  one  over  Alpha  with  it,  Q  one. 100th  minus  t, TH  minus  t  divided  by  Alpha  Delta  t, Delta  t  divided  by  TH  t  Alpha one  100th  minus  t, Delta  A  divided  by  S  one  minus  S  four, 100,  and  then  we  have One  minus  t  divided  by th.  Okay. Beautiful.  We'll  start  with this  side,  maybe  here. Someone  in  the  back  or  in  the  front,  Howard. Is  that  the  royal?  Okay. Yeah,  We  decided  at the  observe  pan  of. Sure.  Two  is. Secondly,  we  observed  the  description of  question  three  being  that process  two  and  33  and  41  s22  and  three? One?  Yeah.  There  we can  assume  that  Qn  is  equal  to. And  therefore  equation  of  deficiency Qn  You  can't  figure  that  Sure. But  do  we  equal  to  one  when  we  have  car  ever? Is  the  arn  ever  equal  to  one? So  if  you  said  that  this  was  one, would  this  be  a  violation of  the  second  law,  Yes  or  no? It's  a  violation.  Okay.  That's  important. So  that's  perpetual  mobile of  the  second  kind. Another  brave  soul  on  the  left  side who  did  not  take  C  85  today. Okay.  Well,  in  the  interest of  time,  let's  bring  it  home. Let's  say  with  this,  right? We  have  all  the  pieces  now. So  if  we  build  off  of  this  here, in  principle,  we  have  everything,  right? So  let's  go  with  this. So  what  is  then  right? So  is  equal  to  W  net  divided  by  QN. What's  our  W  net?  What  was the  group  WNT?  Can  you  read  it  off  to  me? Delta  Delta  A  Alpha  TL,  right?  Okay. And  I'm  telling  you with  the  regeneration,  right? We  don't  have  the  transfer  4-1,  right? So  we  get  rid  of  that. And  so  what's  your  Q  in  the  in  this  case? TH,  Alpha,  and  what? A  two  minus  a  one,  which  is basically  Delta  A,  right? Okay.  All  right? This  goes  away.  This  goes  away. And  so  what  are  we  left  with?  If  we  do  that? O  minus.  Which  is  what? Caro  Caro,  baby. You  did  a  real  caro. So  whoever  wrote  who  wrote  M  Carne. Unfortunately,  I  erased  it, but  someone  did  write  Carne. To  the  group  that  wrote  Carne, if  they  care  to  comment, did  they  go  through  the full  steps  to  get  to  that? You  guys  did.  Change  our  answer.  Oh,  I  see. Okay.  I  didn't  know that  you  could  change  answers. Okay.  Well,  that's  it. All  right.  That's  basically  it. So  one  of  the  neat  things about  Sterling  is  with  that, you  can  actually  get  up  to Carne  if  you  built  it  right,  right? So  the  efficiencies  are  there. If  you  don't  believe  me,  I  have  on  here, If  you  open  up  the  workbook  here, the  Jupiter  one  and  look through  the  analysis  with  it, I  got  up  to  Carne  within,  like, I  think,  00.2%  of  the  efficiency  in  doing  it. So  while  it's  possible to  do  it's  challenging,  right? It's  challenging  to  think  about, how  can  I  handle  this  regeneration? How  is  it  that  I'm  able  to  perfectly take  heat  out  from  two, three,  store  it, and  then  transfer  back  to  41. So  therein  lies  the  challenge. Some  people  have  apparently tried  to  build  them. The  surface  tension  example  that  I  showed  to you  before  people  have  tried  to  do that  with,  like,  wetting  systems. I  don't  know  the  scales  that  they  got  to, but  there  have  been,  you  know,  attempts and  some  of  these  things  made. I  also  asked  one  of  my  PhD  students, he  studied  in  at  McGill. And  apparently  at  McGill, one  of  their  labs  was  actually  that. They  had  sort  of  a  working  Sterling  cycle, and  you  could  look  at  it and  look  at  the  states,  okay? So  hopefully  that  was  like  a  useful exercise  of  putting  this  all, you  know,  together  on  the  analysis. And  yeah,  with  that, I'm  gonna  close  it. If  you  have  some  questions. I'm  up  here.  Alright.  Thank  you.
