To  the  associate  who  da. It  that  one  question.  And  he said  that  he  couldn't  figure  it  out. Thought  that  was  like  some  of  don't  know. I  don't  know  the  issue. The  refrigeration  question that  I  e  mailed  you  about  last  week  Sure. I  sent  to  him  and  who  me  again  Thomas to  the  person  who taught  yesterday  last  last  Monday. Car  tak.  Yeah.  E  mailed  art. Yeah.  Okay  Carta  doesn't  know  refrigeration. Okay.  Because  all  right. And  he  didn't  teach  refrigeration,  right? He  taught  regeneration.  Okay.  Yeah. Yeah.  But  I  asked  him  after  class and  he  told  me  to  e  mail  to  e  mail  him. Yeah.  Yeah.  So  he  said  he couldn't  figure  it  out  either. But  I  don't  know  the  question. So  what's  the  question?  Um  I have  no  idea.  Yeah.  Okay. Thank  you  for All right  I  have  310.  I'm  going  to  get  started. This  is  super. Better.  That's  better,  Yeah. Okay.  So  today,  we're  going  to continue  with  the  cycles. And  so  you  went  with  doctor  Regula  gata  on Monday  with  the  reheat  and  regeneration. I  heard  you  did  one  cycle. I'd  recommend  having  a  look  at  the  other  one. Those  are  not  the  types  of things  that  we're  going  to  give  an  exam. I'm  not  going  to  ask  you a  regeneration  or  a  reheat  problem, but  I  think  you should  have  awareness  about  it, because  this  is  essentially  how we  take,  you  know, these  cycles  and  actually  get from  those  40%  efficiencies, those  50  or  whatever. Also,  I  think  if  you  can  really solve  something  like  that,  you  get  it. Like,  you  get  like  the  course,  right? So  'cause  you  have  to  apply really  all  the  elements  that  you've learned  into  it,  right? So  today,  we're  going  to talk  about  the  Sterling  cycle. How  many  have  you  heard  of  a  Sterling  cycle? A  few?  Why  do  we  care  about  Sterling? What's  interesting  about  it? It's  a  complicated. It  can  be  complicated.  I  think I  think  I've  seen  examples of  working  fluids  of  Air. Another.  Interesting  feature  about  it. I  know  from  that  they're  very  quiet. So  be  quiet.  Another.  So  we continue  in  this  course  towards  perfection. So  Sterling  is  an  example  of a  cycle  with  pretty  high  efficiency. And  today,  we're  going  to  look  into understanding  why  that  is. These  are  complicated  systems. So  before  we  go  into  it, I'm  going  to  start  with  something  simple. There's  something  simpler  than a  soap  film  or  a  bubble,  you  pretty  familiar. There's  an  example  we  did  before,  right? So  we  looked  at  a  liquid  film of  constant  volume. Right?  That  was  attached  to  a  wire  frame. And  you  analyzed  the  change and  energy  of  this  film  as  you  extended  it. And  out  of  that,  you  were  able  to say  something  about  the  force  applied necessary  force  to  apply in  the  work  that  you  need to  put  in  in  order  to  move  it from  here  to  here. So  I  showed  you  the  fallacies of  why  this  isn't  a  spring,  right? Cause  a  spring  there, the  more  you  pull  it, right,  the  higher  the  force  is? Well,  something  like  this, the  more  you  pull  it, the  force  is  the  same,  right? But  in  a  sense,  in  both  cases, you  would  integrate  that  force over  the  displacement  that you  have  and  you'd  have a  change  of  energy,  right? And  the  only  thing  you  really need  to  know  that  you  probably  don't have  prior  experience  with  technically, although, you  probably  have  some  intuition is  this  concept  of surface  tension  or  surface  energy. There  in  short. If  we  think  about  it  on  an  energy  basis, it's  the  amount  of  work  you  need to  provide  in order  to  create  an  area, a  new  area  of  that  surface,  right? You  all  with  it  that  Kartik put  you  to  sleep  or  he  took all  your  energy  on  Monday  and  didn't  leave any  in  the  control  volume  for  today. Okay.  But  here's  what  I  want  to  do. I  want  to  look  today  at essentially  analyzing  this  cycle. Alright?  So  again,  we're taking  this  system  here, and  we're  going  to  run  it  as a  thermal  engine  based  on  surface  energy. You  want  to  ask  yourself,  is  this possible  to  do?  It  is.  Right? It  is  possible  to  do.  There's  some  great, nice  papers  from  a  Russian  group  that went  and  analyzed  with  it, if  you  have  questions  about  it,  you can  ask  me  before,  after. Class,  in  short,  what this  engine  looks  like  on  a  T  A  diagram. A  here  is  the  area,  right? The  volume  of  this  liquid  is  constant. So  you're  dealing  with changes  in  the  area  as  you stretch  and  contract,  right? As  we  have  a  hot  temperature,  TH. We  have  a  low  temperature  T L.  We  have  states  one,  two,  three, four,  right,  so  the  cycles clockwise  like  most  of  the  engines  we  know. And  what's  relevant  is  that we  increase  the  area  1-2  at  Delta  A, and  we  decrease  the  area  3-4  Delta  A,  right? This  is  the  first  thing  I want  you  to  know,  right? The  second  thing  is  that  surface  tension, its  property  depends  on  temperature,  right? So  if  I  take  water  at room  temperature  and  I  measure  this  tension, right,  it's  going  to  be 72  millinewtons  a  meter. Alright,  as  I  start  to  heat it  up  towards  its  boiling  point, it's  going  to  drop  off  dramatically, which  makes  sense,  right? Because  what  is  boiling,  it's  nothing  but those  molecules  getting  loose. Alright? And  the  probability  that  it's  going  to  get loose  depends  on  how  cohesive  it  is  there. So  as  I  increase  the  temperature,  you  know, you  can  have  some  expectation that  the  surface  tensions should,  should  decrease,  right? You  know,  Believe  me  go  home  and  make some  bara  and  see  as  you  start  to boil  it  if  it  starts  to  bubble easier  there  at  the  top. That  also  has  to  do  with  some  starch. Anyway,  so  you  have  this,  right? So  the  surface  tension  decreases as  the  temperature  increases. Alright?  That's  your  formula. And  the  second  thing  I'm  giving  you  as a  piece  of  information  is  that  the  change, you  can  relate  changes  in entropy  to  changes  in  area. We'll  cover  in  a  couple  of weeks  how  we  go  between  these. In  short, it's  called  Maxwell's  relations,  right? So  I'll  teach  you  how  to  do  this. For  now,  I'm  giving  you  a  relation  between change  and  entropy  and  change  in  area. And  the  relation  between  them  depends  on the  derivative  of  surface  energy  with respect  to  D  Sigma  DT  there,  right? Alpha  Beta  or  constant, again,  A  is  an  area,  T  is  temperature, SS  entropy,  C  is specific  heat,  right,  you  have  that. And  I  have  three  questions  for  you. So  the  first  is,  what's  the  network? Alright?  As  we've  been  doing,  right a  bunch  of  times  now,  you,  you  know, net  work  should  be kind  of  a  second  habit  there. What's  the  Q  in? Right?  Remember,  what's  Q,  your  definition of  Q  there. And  if  I  told  you  that  if The  heat  that  we  need  to  cool  down 2-3  was  transferred  into  four  to  one. What  is  the  efficiency,  right? Then  that  last  step  is an  important  feature  of the  Sterling  cycle,  right? Is  it  called  regeneration,  right? Essentially,  you  store,  right, this  heat  that  you  transfer  out  here  somehow, and  then  you  transfer  it  back  in. Alright?  There's  a  lot  of  information. So  I'm  saying  about  10  minutes. So  any  questions  before  we  get  started? Okay.  Hopefully,  Are  Wees  this  morning. Alright,  10  minutes,  I'll  be  circulating, and  then  we'll  come  together and  analyze  it  together,  right? Great. Does  it  work?  I  saw  the  three.  Yeah. Okay,  great.  And  then  you  should  be  able  to scroll  down  to  give,  like  an  input,  right? Yeah.  All  right.  Beautiful.  Okay. Thank  you. Good.  Five. Which  one  C  85  with  got. Okay.  She's  my  buddy,  you  know?  Yeah. Well,  if  you  did statics  you're  ready  for  this, this  is  slightly  dynamics,  huh? So  69,  even. E  2022 27 nine How's  it  going  back  here? Okay. What's  wrong?  F  out  how  to  do  this. I  with  budget.  Well,  no, but  it's  not  area. Airpa  it's  simpler. So  if  we  think  about  the  efficiency  of an  engine.  Talk  about  efficiencies. What  are  you  usually  ef  ratio?  There  we  go. So  work  out  here,  though, do  you  think  it's just  what  happens  if  you  have  to pay  some  working  in order  to  make  the  cycle  work? Would  you  say  that  the  efficiency  is  work  out over  heating  or  would you  say  it's  something  slightly  different. There  we  go.  Good.  One  is  good. We're  talking  network  overheating. You  got  it.  Stick  with her.  So  Tank  you,  please. Did  you  guys  also  have  C  85? I  have  the  other  85  class. Who's  your  teacher  then? I.  Okay.  All  right. It.  Okay.  Well,  I'm glad  I'm  not  talking  at the  board  then,  I  guess. Yes.  We're  here.  I  see. Es  hello. Assuming  that  we  can  have the  same  relationship  where  finding the  area  under  that  curve  equal  to. Like  a  take  under then  it  would  be on the  graph  I. Yes,  sir. I  can't. Now  we  doing  here?  No.  No,  no, no,  no,  because  I think  that  our  answer  first. But  I  think  that  the  answer  for this  one  might  just  be  one  it's like  S  car  building. Were  you  guys  able  to  submit  something  or  no. You're  working  on  the  Q. Okay.  And  your  thoughts? Go. Yes. I  feel  like  the  first  thing W? I  don't  understand  the  Calc  baby. C Are  you  guys able  to  submit  something  or  Yeah. Okay,  good.  Yeah.  You  guys  submit  something? You  got  an  answer?  Good. On  this  side,  did you  guys  submit  something  or  no? Submit.  But  we  have  You  have  something. So  in  like  a  minute  or  two,  you  guys  be  able to  either  submit  or  be  able  to  discuss? Okay.  I  perfect  mite.  How  about  here? He's  hard  at  work.  I  don't want  to  interrupt.  It. Okay.  So  if  you  haven't  submitted  an  answer, say  submit  and  then  we  can  go  through together  and  solve  this. Two.  Okay. Th.  Let's  get  it  to  I  don't  need  a  quorum, but  more  than  five  or  six  would be  enough  for  me  to  work  with. Anything.  Anything. Four.  One  more.  A  brave  group. Okay,  great. So  T  and  T,  right? All  right.  We  have  network All  right. We  got  some  answers  here.  All  right. I  see  here  network  Sigma  dt. So  for  Part  A,  W  net  is  a Sigma  Delta  T.  I  see  a  Delta  A, Alpha  t  minus  TC,  enclosed  area. Okay.  T  Delta  TDS. Ta  A,  T  Delta  A  area  in  the  box, T  Delta  A,  T  A,  T  Delta  A. Okay.  So  I  see  a  lot  here,  right? They  see  quite  a  lot  here. I  saw  quite  a  few  with  this  some  version  of a  Delta  A  Delta  T.  So,  let's  get  started. I'll  make  this  a  full. It's  not  really  recorded, but  I  guess  I  can  go. So  maybe  we  can  start  with  the  enclosed  area. So  does  anyone  from  a  group  with  this  care to  comment  on  enclosed  area? They're  thinking  here.  Sure,  Petro. Similar  to  a  Mm. Sure.  If  we  think  about something  like  a  TS  diagram, so  if  I  take  something  like  a  TS diagram  and  I  do  the  same, and  I  look  at  the  area. So  in  this  case,  I  have  a  unit, essentially  at  some  constant  k here  across  here,  some  value. And  then  I'm  multiplying  that  essentially  by a  joules  per  kilogram  Kalvin. And  in  this  case,  I  ends  up with  the  joules  per  kilogram, right?  This  is  sort  of  the  thinking. If  we  come  down  to  something  like  the  TA, if  I  go  with  the  TA  here, I  have  sort  of  again,  sort  of  a  temperature, let's  say a  Delta  temperature  based  on  Calvin. And  then  here,  I'm  going  into  the  area, which  is  then  going  to  bring  me  into a  meters  squared,  right? So  I  think  sort  of  correct  thinking, but  then  what  do  you  think  we  need  here? Else  Something  else. That's  the  something  else.  Okay.  How  about the  WNT  here,  Sigma  Delta  T? There's  no  wrong  answers  after  T  85,  right? So,  although  I  will say  this  is  sort  of  things  intention, so  I'm  not  sure. Maybe  you  use  all  that  today. This  Alpha  Delta  T.  Se  some  here. So  what's  the  thinking  in  this  case? I  mean,  I  can  tell  you what  my  own  thinking  would  be. Basically  Delta. In  the  basis  of  it  so  then we  Basically theta  dt. All  right.  So  I  held  it  here. So  I  said  Work  was essentially  a  Sigma  Delta A.  I  could  follow  that. Within  Sigma,  I  have  a  Beta  minus Sigma  T  and  the  next  step  was. Oh,  I'm  sorry,  beta  minus  apologies. Beta  minus  Alpha  Tita mia  us. All  right.  So  here  this  is,  right? And  then  this  would  be  basically  W, and  then  W  net  is  W  N  minus  W. T  one.  Okay. So,  I  think  it's sort  of  how  I  presented  it  here,  right? Okay.  So  if  we  have  then this  with  the  difference, so  I  have  then  essentially  a  Delta  A. The  Betas  cancel,  right? So  if  I  subtract  this  from  this, the  Betas  basically  cancel. And  we  can  put  the  negative  sign  there. Let's  say  that's  out. So  if  I  put  sort  of  a  negative  sign in  front,  as  you  mentioned, then  I  have  Alpha  TH  minus  Alpha  TC. So  then  I  have  Delta  A, Alpha  TH  minus  TC.  Okay. All  right.  This  is  another  answer, which  then  corresponded  to  Delta  like  this. Okay.  Good. All  right.  So  we've  done  this  one. We've  done  this  one. No  one  cared  to  speak  up  for  this  one. And  then  the  Delta  T  Delta  A. The  way  that  I  look  at that  is  that  that's  similar in  thinking  to  the  area  thinking. So  that,  you  know,  we  have  this  times  this, and  there's  kind  of  a  missing  something. Do  any  groups  care  to  comment  on this  one  if  I missed  something  in  their  thinking? Any  groups  want  to  say  something  else  that's not  up  here?  Now  having  heard  all  that. Lively  bunch  today.  Okay.  So  if we  come  back  to  the  example  of stretching  of  the  film. So  if  we  just  think  about  the film  itself  for  a  second, and  then  I  can  tell  you  what  I think  is  sort  of  right  there,  you  know, what  is  the  work  you  need  to  put in  to  stretch  the  film? So  what's  the  force? Right?  Or  what's,  you  know, let  me  say  it  another  way. You  know,  you  have  here  Sigma,  right? You're  given  right  Delta  A. Right?  So  what's  that  change  in  energy  then? There,  it's  it,  right?  So  you  have Sigma  Delta  A,  right? This  has,  by  define,  you  know, this  is  units  of Jews,  right?  So  that's  energy. You  have  energy  there  into  the  point  of what  R,  Max  Max,  right? Yeah.  What  Max  and  the  group said  is  that  that's  exactly  it,  right? You  have  a  Delta  A  and  a  Sigma, and  then  that  gives  you  the  work. You  have  two  work  terms,  right? So  within  this  cycle, right, you  have  two  swings  in  terms  of  the  area. So  I  think  towards  what Pietro  was  thinking  about,  right, we  had  these  kinds  of  lines  that  we were,  that  we're  thinking  about. And  usually  in  thinking like  something  like  Carino, you're  going  to  have  a  heat  transfer  line and  a  work  transfer  line  there. And  so  this  top  one  is then  right  the  work  out. That's  an  expansion  process. So  one  could  think  of  that  as  like a  P  DV  type  of  thing. But  in  our  case  here,  right, it's  a  Sigma  DA ultimately  that  gives  you  that, right?  So  that's  very  good. And  then,  yeah,  I  guess,  in  this  case, we  took  it  a  step further  than  I  would  have  at  this  stage, and  then  substituted  the  rest  of  the  values. So  the  rest  is  basically  alga,  but  right, you're  substituting  the  Sigma  value  that  I gave  you  there  into  that  and then  working  through  to  get  the  net. And  so  this  answer,  you  know, what  I  would,  you  know, find  acceptable  would  be some  version  of  something  like  this, but  then  Max  and the  group  that  what  they  had  there, that's  also  completely  correct  to  do. All  right.  Very  good. So  step  one.  Alright. Step  two.  QN. All  right.  So  QN, I've  got  a  T  L  Alpha  D  A. C  times  th  minus  T  L  Integral, Beta  minus  Sigma. D.  That's  great. What  is  that  Amoji?  That's  nice.  TDS. TTS.  A.  What's  the  red? What's  this?  Delta  Delta. That's  nice.  Okay.  We  don't get  the  Greek.  We  get  the  Delta. Cool.  A  Delta  A  TH  minus  TL. We're  getting  creative  on  the  keyboard today.  Alpha  TA. Alpha  T  A.  D.  DQ  DT. All  right.  TDS  10  ADA  Alpha D.  Beta  minus  Alpha t  two  minus  t  one, TH  Alpha  Delta  A. S  one  minus  S  four. T.  Why  can't  I  TH  times  Delta  A.  Yeah. Okay,  that's  a  lot. That's  a  range  of  answers. I'm  going  to  try  to  see  if  there's  a  theme. I  would  say  probably  these  two  are  kind  of similar  in  thinking  here. An  Alpha  Alpha  Delta Delta  T.  Maybe  that's similar  D  is  probably  T,  right? TDA  four. This  is  Alpha  D  A.  This  is  another  one. Okay.  Alright,  now  I'm  going  to  call  that out  cause  I'm  not  sure. Jason,  would  your  group  care  to  comment on  how  you  guys approach  this  one  or  your  thinking  here? I  say  the  second  part. So  there's  a  question  about  QN. So  what  is  that  he  transferred  in? A Yes.  Yeah. There  you  go. Exactly.  Okay,  that's  great. So  the  thinking  was  you  looked  at  this, you  saw  where  you  had the  jump  in  temperature, and  that  must  be the  heat  transfer  part  of  it. That's  good  thinking,  right? So  here. Exactly.  Okay.  Up  front  here? Who  is  a  group  I  haven't  seen?  You  guys? So  we  took  D  Sigma  dt  is  equal to  d  by  dt  of  Beta  minus  Alpha  t. And  out  of  this, you  have  negative  Alpha,  right? So  then  we  go  dS  is  equal  to  negative  D sigma  D  A,  right? This  is  basically negative  Alpha  goes  into  here. Negative  Alpha  of  a  negative  D  Sigma  d is  basically  Alpha  DA. DS  is  equal  to  dQ  over  t.  Sorry. And  then  you  integrate  or  here. I'll  move  it  up. DS  is  equal  to  Delta  Q  over  t,  you  integrate. What's  the  next  sep?  Sorry. Sorry.  I  see. So  here  then  this  becomes Alpha  dA  is  equal  to  Delta  Q  over  t. Like  this. Okay?  And  then  you  have Q  is  what  T.  T  treats. Okay.  Bold.  Bold  choices. No,  no.  It's  ok.  No,  no.  Be  bold. Alright?  So  we  pull  the  T  out. You  also  pull  the  Alpha  out,  then  O. Right.  So  you'd  have  here,  T  Alpha. And  then  out  of  this,  I  would  say  your  Q  is then  T  Alpha  Delta  A,  right? Okay. Anyone  else  have  something  else? Here,  I  have  all  the  pieces. I  can  solve  the  puzzle. Yes?  Oh,  so  you  took  I'm  sorry. Say  one  more  time?  Yes. Yes.  Beta  minus  Beta  Beta  minus  Sigma. How  do  you  put  Beta  minus  Sigma  into  here? Oh,  I  see.  I  see. Okay. So  you  were  saying  Beta  is  something  that  I know  and  with  this  work  it  in. Okay.  Yeah.  But  you  basically followed  sort  of  the  similar  thinking. Okay.  Anyone  else? Another  group?  Okay,  so there's  something  interesting  here,  right? So  what  I  notice  is  that  we have  from  I  think  Jason's  group  there, right,  identified  that  we're  going  to  have a  Q  in  clearly  because  we're  jumping, you  know,  the  A  is  kept  constant,  right? I  don't  have  an  expectation of  work  transfer  there. I  have  a  jump  in  temperature. Therefore,  I  must  have  a  QN  that's  this. And  then,  from  what  I  want  to  call  math  here, I've  also  demonstrated  you  know, drawing  on  our  Calc  resources that  there's  a  Q  in  from  this,  right? And  so  the  answer  to  this  is  yes, right?  So  you  have  Q  in. And  what's  interesting  about the  Sterling  is  that there's  kind  of  a  Q  in  4-1, and  also  one  to  two,  right? And  The  point  is  that  the  four  to  one, kind  of  Q  in  actually  comes  from  the  Q out  from  q23,  right? That's  the  whole  point of  the  regeneration,  right? In  order  to  cool  here 2-3,  I  have  to  take  heat  out. And  in  sterling,  what  you  do  is you  take  that  heat  kind  of  out, in  a  sense,  not  really  out, but  you  take  it  out  and you  store  it  in  something,  right? You  basically  hold  it  as a  thought  experiment, but  you  hold  it  in  something. And  then  later  on,  you  take  that  heat, and  then  you  transfer  it  in when  you  need  it  4-1,  right? So  the  truth  for  this  cycle  is  that  actually, so  while  that's  both  right, and  you  can  run  a  sterling  cycle where  without  a  regenerator, where  you  would  know, heat  in  and  heat  in  and then  heat  out  and  heat  out, if  you  want  to  get  to  the  high  efficiencies, you're  going  to  have this  regeneration  process where  you  take,  you  know, this  C  t  two  minus  t  three, hold  it,  and  then  take  that  amount  of  heat and  transfer  it  to  warm  4-1,  right? I  don't  have  much  of  an  imagination, so  I'm  not  gonna  stand  here  and  pretend to  show  you  what  that  looks  like. You  can  Google  or  ask  with  it. But  I  will  say  that  with  this  system, you  could  think  about  with  that  soap  film, right,  or  that  liquid. You  could  think  about  putting it  in  contact  with  something, something  that's  like  a  lump  body, like  a  metal  or  something  else that  you  could  transfer  the  heat to  and  from,  right? Good.  So  the  combination  of  those  two,  right? So  really,  then  this  is this  term  is  right  effectively  the  Q. This  is  basically  q41  there. And  in  this  case, with  the,  the  Q  four,  right? This  is  basically  your  q34, the  T  Alpha  T  Alpha  Delta  A  with  it,  right? And  so,  you  know, if  you  were  going  to  write  then the  overall  Q  in  All  right. So  the  overall  QN  is  then, q41  plus  the  Q  Q  one. And,  QN. Hold  on  a  second.  Yeah,  Q  one. And  then  the  other  QN  is  going  to  be  a  Q This  is  Q  two.  Sorry,  two,  right? So  then  the  other  one  is  basically q12,  right? And  so  in  short,  that's going  to  be  your  specific  heat. You  T  high,  minus  your  T  low, and  then  plus  this  TH times  Alpha  Delta  Delta  A  there,  right? We  in  short  Delta  A  then  really  is the  A  two  minus  the  A  one,  right? All  right.  And  when  we  come  to  parts  mix. Go  ahead.  Yeah,  so there  would  be  then  the  opposite,  right? So  then  if  we  looked  at  that, so  then  a  Q  out, which  we  didn't  ask  for,  right? So  Q  clearly,  what  would  be the  Q  out  then,  for  the  32? Sorry. Yeah,  C  dealt  to  T,  right? So  basically  you  have  a  C.  And  then  if  I'm looking  at  it  from  if I'm  talking  about  it  as  an  out, term  if  I  already  write  the  t  out, then  it's  going  to  be  writ  a  t  two  minus t  three  to  give  you  that  part  of  it. And  then  the  other  side  is  going  to  be  plus then  a  t  Alpha  A  two  minus  A or  basically  A  two  minus  A  one,  right? Good.  All  right.  Final  part, putting  it  all  together. Alright,  so  the  thing  I  want  to  comment here  before  I  get  to  into  it, is  that  the  whole  point about  the  regeneration,  right? The  regeneration  is  that, you  know,  this  is  no  longer  a  QN,  right? If  I  analyzed,  my  whole  system is  a  control  volume,  right? This  is  this  heat is  not  leaving  my  system,  right? I'm  basically,  like,  storing it  in  a  sense,  right? I'm  taking  it  out, but  I'm  not  letting  it  leave. And  then,  you  know,  when  I  come  back, so  I  take  it  out  at  two, three,  and  then  I  hold  it, and  then  I  transfer  it  back  in with  41,  right?  Okay. All  right. Okay,  so  here  we  have,  right? So  Ia,  By  definition  is  equal  to the  W  net  divided  by  our  Q,  right? That's  perfectly  correct. And  then  here  we  have  a  one  minus  Q  out, divided  by  a  Q  in, and  we  say  that  it's  tending towards  one  as  an  answer,  less  than  carno. That's  a  safe  bet.  That's  house  money M.  You're  going  to  win  every  time  on  that. So  we  have  a  one  over  Alpha  with  it,  W  Q  one. 100th  minus  t.  TH minus  t  divided  by  Alpha  Delta  T, Delta  t  divided  by  t  t  Alpha  one 100th  minus  t  L  Delta A  divided  by  S  one  minus  four, 100,  and  then  we  have one  minus  t  divided  by th.  Okay. Beautiful.  We'll  start  with this  side,  maybe  here. Someone  in  the  back  or  in  the  front,  Howard. Is  that  the  royal?  Okay. Yeah,  We  decided at  the  observe  pan. Sure.  Two.  Secondly,  we  observed the  description  of  question  three  being that  process  two  and  33  and  41,  s Two  e  two  and  341? Yeah.  There  we  can  assume  that  Q  is  equal  to. And  therefore  equation  of  deficiency  Q  over. You  can't  figure  that  Sure. But  do  we  equal  to  one  when  we  have  car  ever? Is  the  caro  ever  equal  to  one? So  if  you  said  that  this  was  one, would  this  be  a  violation  of  the  second  law? Yes  or  no?  It's  a  violation. Okay.  That's  important. So  that's  perpetual  mobile of  the  second  kind. Another  brave  soul  on  the  left side  who  did  not  take C  85  today?  Okay. Well,  in  the  interest  of  time, let's  bring  it  home. Let's  say  with  this,  right? We  have  all  the  pieces  now. So  if  we  build  off  of  this  year, in  principle,  we  have  everything,  right? So  Let's  go  with  this. So  what  is  then  right? So  is  equal  to  W  net  divided  by  QN. What's  our  W  net? Was  the  Group  Net?  Can  you  read  it  off  to  me? Delta  Alpha  Delta  A  Alpha  TL,  right? Okay.  And  I'm  telling you  with  the  regeneration,  right? We  don't  have  the  transfer  4-1,  right? So  we  get  rid  of  that. And  so  what's  your  Q  in  then,  in  this  case? TH,  Alpha,  and  what? A  two  minus  a  one,  which  is basically  Delta  A,  right? Okay.  All  right?  This  goes  away. This  goes  away.  And  so what  are  we  left  with?  If  we  do  that? O  minus.  Which  is  what? Caro  Caro,  baby. You  did  a  real  caro. So  whoever  wrote  who  wrote  my  Carne. Unfortunately,  I  erased  it, but  someone  did  write  Carne. To  the  group  that  wrote  Carne, if  they  care  to  comment, did  they  go  through  the  full  steps to  get  to  that?  You  guys  did. Our  answer.  Oh,  I  see. Okay.  I  didn't  know that  you  could  change  answers. Okay.  Well,  that's  it. All  right,  so  that's  basically  it. So  one  of  the  neat  things about  Sterling  is  with  that, you  can  actually  get  up  to Carne  if  you  built  it  right,  right? So  the  efficiencies  are  there. If  you  don't  believe  me,  I  have  on  here, If  you  open  up  the workbook  here,  the  Jupiter  one, and  look  through  the  analysis  with  it, I  got  up  to  Carne  within,  like, I  think  00.2%  of  the  efficiency  in  doing  it. So  while  it's  possible to  do  it's  challenging,  right? It's  challenging  to  think  about, how  can  I  handle  this  regeneration? How  is  it  that  I'm  able  to  perfectly take  heat  out  from  two, three,  store  it, and  then  transfer  back  to  41. So  therein  lies  the  challenge. Some  people  have  apparently tried  to  build  them. The  surface  tension  example  that  I  showed  to you  before  people  have  tried  to  do that  with,  like,  wetting  systems. I  don't  know  the  scales  that  they  got  to, but  there  have  been,  you  know,  attempts and  some  of  these  things  made. I  also  asked  one  of  my  PhD  students, he  studied  in  And  McGill, and  apparently  at  McGill, one  of  their  labs  was  actually  that. They  had  sort  of  a  working  Sterling  cycle, and  you  could  look at  it  and  look  at  the  states. Okay?  So  hopefully  that  was  like a  useful  exercise  of  putting  this  all, you  know,  together  on  the  analysis. And  yeah,  with  that, I'm  going  to  close  it. If  you  have  some  questions.  I'm  up here.  All  right.  Thank  you.
