Mm. No. All  right,  I  got  310.  Welcome,  everyone. This  is  ME  40.  This  is  your  last  chance, if  you  don't  belong  here. My  name  is  Pessor  Tom  Shusis. I  will  be  leading  this  course. Hopefully,  you  all  had  a  chance  to  review the  videos  that  I  uploaded  from  last  week. I'm  terribly  sorry  about being  unable  to  attend  the  lecture. I  had  some  doctoral  students  who were  finishing  their  degrees  overseas. I  was  before  this  in  Europe for  about  ten  years  working. So  I'm  very,  very  sorry,  Hopefully, that  was  okay,  and  you  enjoyed your  labor  day  weekend. So  what  are  we  doing  in  40? So  we're  going  to  talk  about  energy. Until  now  in  your  physics  course  work, you've  probably  dealt  a  lot with  forces,  right? But  Newtonian  mechanics  and  that. You've  analyzed,  you  know,  systems  with  it. In  this  course,  you're  going  to analyze  it  with  energy. All  right,  Conservation  of mass,  conservation  of  energy, in  addition  to  the  conservation  of  momentum, which  I'm  sure  you  all  know  very  well. I've  been  doing  this  for  more  than  ten  years, teaching  it  for  both  undergraduate, graduate  students. These  are  system  examples of  sort  of  systems  you're  going to  really  analyze  here. T  terms  of  the  team,  so  I  mentioned  myself, the  head  GSI  is  Andrew  Koka  Boon  there. We're  also  lucky  enough to  have  Spencer  Allison. Spencer  was  a  GSI  with  me  last  year. And  then  Thomas,  here  is the  reader  for  the  ors. If  you  need  to  find  him, you  can  find  him  there  on  the  board. I  saw  some  comments here  with  the  Prairie  learn. Most  of  you  basically signed  up  and  looked  at  it. A  commonly  recurrent  question  is, like,  Hey,  I  did  this  once  right. You  know,  I  didn't  get  full  credit. I  mean,  this  is  repetition. So  basically  with  this  thing, you  know,  do  it  once. You  want  full  credit,  basically, do  it  successfully  right twice.  That's  the  first  thing. The  second  thing  is that  when  you  upload  your  work, I  need  record  of  your  work. This  has  to  do  with  accreditation. I'm  not  like  someone  who  tries to  make  things  painful  in  life. I'm  interested  in  efficiency. That's  the  purpose  of  this  course, but  I  do  need  you  to  show  the  work, and  that's  also  important  when  it comes  to  assessments  like  exams. I  don't  just  grate  for  correct  answer. I  graded  your  thinking. Alright. So  you  make  a  PDF,  you  upload it  here.  Is  that  clear? Great.  If  it's  too  big, 10  megabytes  is  kind  of  big, you  know,  compress.  Your  Berkeley  students. And  then  you  figure  it  out. If  not  right  down  the  road, there  is  eks,  I'm  sure  they  can help  you  with  that. Another  important  part  of  this. So,  I  got  to  find  a  e  mail  saying, Oh,  thought  Pralar  wrote  the  problems. Pray  Learn  didn't  write  anything. I  wrote  them  all,  right? With  my  teaching  staff. So  there's  an  issue  I  need  to  know. So  please,  you  know,  no matter  how  trivial  notations, dimensions,  whatever,  just  send  us a  message  there  to  me  or  the  team. You  can  report  that  directly  on  the  site. Oh.  Exactly.  And  as  I  said  before, I  count  141  of  you registered  for  Prairie  learn, but  there's  146  of  you. So  the  five  of  you,  if  you're  in  the  room, and  you  haven't  seen  this  yet, please  go  to  the  site or  ask  your  neighbor,  you  know, Hey,  did  you  go  there, how  to  do  it?  Next  thing  is  test. So  the  first  mid  term,  we're  also  going  to do  through  this  software. And  this  is  conducted  with  again, our  EC  colleagues  through the  computer  based  testing  facility. You  should  have  all  received  an  invite. Do  somebody  here  not  receive  an  invite? Did  somebody  here  log  in? One.  Beautiful.  So  ask him  how  he  did  it,  right? So  log  in  and  do  it. We're  going  to  have  a  mock  version of  this  where  you  basically  will  go to  the  facility  on  either  September  11  or the  12th  to  see  one  where  it  is, logging  in,  get  a  sense  of  it,  right? Kind  of  like  reconnaissance. You  go  there,  you  see  what  it's  like, you  know,  what  the  environment  is. We'll  explain  a  little  bit  more  about the  rules  of  engagement  later  on. Then  you  gel,  why  do  we  do  this? There's  a  lot  of  reasons  why  it  will  become apparent  later  on  through  this  semester. This  is  here. Homeworks  one  to  five  should  be  posted. So  we  go  in  three  modules  here. Module  one,  first  law. Module  two,  second  law, Module  three,  the  application of  laws  one  and  two,  right? So  one,  two,  three,  like  most  things  in  life. It  comes  in  three. So  the  homeworks  are  posted, and  they're  going  to  be  due  on  this  date. So  just  before  the  week  of  mid  term  one, they're  due.  You're  adults. Trustee  can  work  out,  you  know, a  good  strategy  for  doing  it. I  wouldn't  wait  until  you  know, the  30th  or  whatever  to  start opening  in  and  logging in  and  whatever,  right? This  will  be  the  practice. And  then  also  as  part  of the  course  of  the  projects. So  you're  each  going  to  be  able  to make  a  group  with  one  other  person  and  work on  select  a  thermodynamics  project, relatively  simple  problem. Again,  give  you  an  opportunity  to, you  know,  show  what  you've learned  in  the  course. Right?  More  details  on  that are  found  on  B  courses. That's  when  it's  due.  This  is  the  week. We  haven't  set  yet  because  we  have to  work  with the  east  colleagues  on  some  dates, but  the  mid  term  one  you  can expect  on  this  week, and  there'll  be  a  number  of  dates  there, and  you  can  schedule  and sign  up  for  when  it's  done. The  next  homeworks  are  posted. Next  homeworks  are  due, midterm  two,  and  so  on  and  so  forth,  right? Recitation.  Are  there  any  questions about  any  of  that  for  a  div  in? Yes,  please. It's  not  available  yet. So  it's  not  there,  that's  a  good  point. It's  not  available  yet.  It  will  be come  soon.  Ok?  Other  questions? Yes,  please.  No,  no,  Doc. I  reward  success.  You  know, I  come  from  Illinois,  Lincoln, fail,  fail,  fail,  fail,  success. We  don't  talk  about  the  failure. So  the  point  is  that  here you  can  fail  a  bunch  of  times. And  then  the  homework, if  you  eventually  get  it  right, we  reward  that.  But  there's  no  history. Yes,  please. Yes,  one.  On  PDF. O.  Otherwise,  that's  a  disaster  for  me. Think  about  me.  There's  149 of  you.  Yes,  please. Repetition. I  mean,  I'm  sure  you have  a  clever  way  of  doing  that. But  I  mean,  in  principle, you  should  show  the  work,  right? But  I'm  fine  with one  if  you  show  me  your  thinking, and  then  tell  me,  hey, I  substitute  this  number  and  that  number. Does  that  make  sense? Other  questions.  Yes,  please. We're  doing  like  a  round  robin  here. Yes,  please. I  mean,  this  is  engineering, I  mean,  algebra  and  calculus are  the  language.  So  yes. But  you  substitute  a  number, and  I  need  a  dimension  if  it's a  numerical  answer,  right?  Okay. Next. Yeah.  So  I've  asked  my  philosophy, colleagues  about  that,  you  know,  I  mean, you  can  write  something,  right? Thank  you.  Next.  That  was  easy.  Alright. So,  here  are  the  major learning  objectives  of  this  course. I'm  not  going  to  read  them  off  to  you. I'm  just  going  to  say  that right  now  we're  in  the  midst  of the  first  law  and  some  simple  answers. Alright.  So  then  later  on,  we'll go  into  the  deeper  things. After  today,  you're  going  to  be  able to  define  energy,  what  it  is. It's  forms,  what  is  internal  energy. And  what  is  heat, the  transfer  of  heat  there. So,  the  word  energy was  coined  by  Thomas  Young. Thomas  Young  was  a  polymath. He  did  a  bunch  of  stuff. He  translated,  you  know, the  Egyptian  texts  there. In  my  field  of  surfaces and  wetting,  what  we  would  look  at. He  has  a  famous  equation  that's  also  named, you  know,  after  him  there. So  he  came  up  with  it.  Lord  Calvin. So  when  we  talk  about  the  temperature  scales, And  what  you've  read  in  your  book, the  Calvin  Scales  named after  him,  you  know,  there. He  said,  basically,  we should  use  that  in  thermo. Most  of  the  exciting  things  in  thermo. A  lot  of  happened  in  the  19th  century  there. And  then  later  on,  we  came to  find  a  thing  called  Internal  Energy. And  the  variable  for  this  is  U. And  that  was  introduced  by  Rod  off  Clausius. So  he  was  a  professor  of  Physics. The  first  professor  of  Physics  at Etta  Hazurk  at  ETH,  where  I  was  before. It's  also  Einstein  was  famously a  terrible  mechanical  engineering  student. And  then  Rankin. Rankin  is  another  name  that'll  come up  a  lot,  right? So  when  we  talk  about  energy, we  don't  talk  about  absolute  energy, we  deal  in  differentials,  right? Differences  in  unlike  your  forces, as  I  mentioned  before, we  have  an  absolute  force. And  energy,  usually  define  a  reference  point, and  then  we  deal  with  differences relative  to  the  reference  points. Think  about  a  rock  falling,  right? So  you  don't  care  about  Oh, it  landed  at  exactly  this position  if  you're  below  that. You  care,  how  high  up  was that  rock  before  it  fell  onto  me,  okay? Or  towards  Excuse  me. How  many  people  ran  the  simulation that  I  shared  last  week? Okay,  that's  good. So,  for  those  of  you,  they  did  and  run  it, the  simulations  that  you did  were  with  particles  that possessed  what  we  call translational  kinetic  energy,  right? So  that's  things  that  are just  like  moving,  right? They're  moving  in  space. And  that's  all  of  all  of  their  energy,  right? For  polyatomic  molecules, you  can  also  have  a  rotation,  right? So  thinking  like  a  dumbbell,  you know,  or  something  like  that. So  not  only  in  translate, but  they  can  also  rotate. You  can  also  have  molecules  that  vibrate. So  in  addition  to moving  and  rotating  vibrating, it  sounds  like  a  dance,  right?  With  it. And  then  with  electrons,  you  can also  have  spin  with  it. So  these  are the  different  mechanisms  by  which, you  know,  molecules  can  store  energy. We'll  connect  this  with  internal  energy next.  All  right. And  so  the  internal  energy  is the  sum  of  all  these  different  contributions. So  all  the  different  contributions of  this  are  what we  then  define  as  as  internal  energy. Alright? So,  we  look  again in  into  the  simulator  there. Not  only  can  you  do  that,  but  you  can  look into  running  simulations  where, you  know,  you  look  at the  energy  transfer  of  heat. So  in  this  case,  what  we  have  is  Okay, I  took  a  break  during  my  video. What  you  have  here  is you  fill  one  compartment, and  you  fill  another  compartment with  molecules  that,  I  don't  know, different  sizes,  whatever,  and  all  of  that, but  also  different  temperatures. On  the  left  here  of  200  Calvin  and  500, you  remove  the  partition, and  then  you  watch  and  you observe  what  happens,  right? And  what  you're  observing is  he  transfer,  right? Thankfully,  this  room  feels like  it's  got  good  temperature  in  it. You  know,  we  got  lots  of, you  know,  good  exchange  of  air. I'm  not  sweating,  you  know,  too  much  there. So  you're  observing  it  with  me, but  also  on  the  on  the  screen,  right? What  I'd  like  you  to  do  right  now, and  this  is  also  a  theme  of  this  course. I  don't  you  stand  here  at the  board  and  write. We  do  a  little  bit  discussion  and  you  think for  yourselves  with  it. What  I'd  like  you  to  do,  assuming a  few  of  you  have  a  cell  phone or  a  table  or  whatever, is  open  up  the  simulator  there. Form  a  group  of  four,  open up  that  one  of  you  in  the  group. The  second  one  of  you  open that  link.  That's  a  poll. I'll  activate  it  here  in  a  second. What  I  want  you  to  do then  with  the  poll  is  enter the  first  names  of  your  group  members. Say  hello. So,  my  name's  Tom.  Very  nice  to  meet  you. You  know,  write  your  names  then  with  that. And  then  answer  this  first  question. You're  gonna  answer  this  first  question. Alright.  I'll  give  that  5  minutes. And  then  when  we're  done, we  go  to  the  second  one. Are  there  any  questions  about  this activity  before  we  get  started? Okay,  let's  go. So  it's  activated  now. Yeah,  that  link.  So  ft  dot  Colorado E.  If  it's  on  the  PDF, it's  on  the  slides,  so  you  should  be able  to  copy  it  from  there,  ok? Did  it  work?  Oh,  o. The Did  it  work? The  link  is  on  the  slides. No.  Do  you  see  here  for  his?  Here's  the  link. You  can  click  on  that.  My  Brutal. Sorry  It's  k.  They didn't  give  you  a  seat.  That's  rough. Okay.  Sure.  Does  it  work? Great.  Like,  if  you want  to  circle  please  do  that,  right? So  I  have. Nice. I  work  for  you?  So  script  last  I  don't  know. And  on  Data  hub.  Yeah,  they sometimes  take  them  away. They're  all  on  B  courses,  though. I  know  that  you  probably wrote  some  of  your  own. Yeah.  You  can  contact  them, but  my  understanding  is  that  they  sometimes remove  them  with  time. All  good. Binding.  Everything  good  back  here,  guys? Are  you  able  to  open  it  or  no. So  the  link  for  that  thing  is on  the  PDF  there.  So  slide  two  A. If  you  go  to  two  A,  and  you  scroll down  probably  about  ten  slides there.  You'll  see. Keep  going.  Keep  going. I'll  take  you  to  it.  Good.  Question. Radius  that  be  a  factor  of variability  because  depending  on your  radius  size  increase  the  um  I  guess my  question  there  is  that  what  would  be the  influence  of  that  on  the  total  energy? So  I  described  for you  those  different  mechanisms, translation,  rotation,  vibration,  spin. And  for  this  simulator here  where  it  told  me  translational, do  you  expect  that a  radius  is  going  to  have  an  impact on  translational  energy  or  not? Cool. I Are  we supposed  to  wait  for  the  second  to  pop  up? Did  you  guys  answer  the  first  one  already? So  I'm  going  to  make an  announcement  or  about  a  minute  for  that, and  then  I'm  going  to  say  we're  on  to the  second  one.  Thank  you,  though. Cool. So  we'll  give  it  about  a  minute  for  this, and  then  I'm  going  to open  the  second  question. So  send  me  your  answers for  the  first  question. Okay. You  can  answer  the  second  question, no  though. Thank  you. So  what  did  you  guys  discuss? Yeah,  we  have  Oh,  seriously. I  forgot  like  what?  Yeah,  cool. Okay.  Yeah.  Our  predictions are  action  depends  on  particles,  temperature. I'm  not  sure  about  mass. So  I  guess  if  you  think  about  these  things. So  what's  the  for the  particles?  How  do  they  have  energy? Speed  look  at  them. So  if  you  look  at  them  here,  so  I  mean, what's  the,  you  know,  what  do  you  see? Speed  speed. So  And  so  if  you  think  about  that, so  it's  speed,  and  it's  only  what we  call  translational  weather, translational  kinetic  energy. So  like  translational  kinetic  energy. What  are  the  things  that  would  affect  that? Let  me  ask  you  what's  this?  What  would be  like  the  formula  if  I  told  you, tell  me  the  formula  for  kinetic  energy. What  would  you  tell  me?  Yeah,  ph. Square.  Oh  yeah.  Oh,  yeah. Okay.  So  then  what  does  in  this  simulator, then  based  on  that  formula, what  would  you  say  affects? The  energy  in  the  system. Mass  radius  radius directly  for  const  mass. So  this  is  a  very  good  point. In  this  simulator,  they  do  decouple  them. Yes,  but  that's  a  fair  point. For  constant  density,  yes. Okay,  let's  submit  your  final  answer  there, and  then  we're  going  to  open  it  up  in  the plenary,  okay?  I'll  give  it  a  minute. I  mean,  you  can  keep  talking just  30  more  seconds,  right? So  h 36  I  think  36  86  is  very  good. I  suppose  that's  probably  reasonable. Okay.  All  right. So  present. So  for  the  first  question  then, so  what  does  the  total  energy in  each  of  the  set  of the  particles  depend  on? I  turned  it  off.  How  is  this  still  going? All  right.  This  is like,  correction  in  the  election. This  is  a  little  Alright. That's  a  bad  joke.  All  right. So  we  got  number  of  particles. We  got  mass,  fluctuating  mass, radius,  and  initial  temperature. So  maybe,  you  know, I  like  to  also  sometimes  go around  just  to  ask. So  if  I  call  in  a  group  here, just  say  sort  of  your  first  name  and then  if  you'd  selected  it. So  anybody  here  select  particles? So  Austin  Austin.  And  why  did  you  pick  that? We  figured  that  Yes. Great.  Looks  like  31%  agreed  with  you  there. L's  good.  All  right.  How  about  Mass? Who  had  Mass?  Yeah. Good  physics  education.  All  right. How  about  radius?  Brave  soul.  All  right. O  us All  right. So  I  want  to  build  on  that. I  want  to  build  on it  because  I  can  make  a counter  argument  on  radius. I  can  Does  anyone else  have  another  argument  with  radius why  radius  would  affect  the  total  energy. I  can  imagine  potential  electron. Mm. Complicated. I'm  thinking  simpler  in  the  corner. Alright,  you  guys  are  very  smart  people, so  with  the  electro  kinetics?  Yes,  please. There  we  go.  Simpler.  So  bigger  radius. So  constant  density  there. Maybe  with the  electron  clouds  and  which  you  mentioned, that's  also  influencing  it. Coming  back  to  the  other  point, though,  with  the  collision. I  mean,  I  agree  when  it  comes to  analyzing  the  system, the  collision  would  be  an  important  factor. But  the  process  of  colliding, would  you  view  that  as, like,  a  storage  mechanism or  more  of  a  transfer  mechanism? Transfer,  maybe.  So  I  think  there  it's  there. It's  definitely  an  important  factor, but  in  this  case,  you  know, I  would  classify  more of  that  as  a  transfer  and not  necessarily  a  storage  mechanism. Okay. And  what  about  initial  temperature? What  initial  temperature? You.  Yeah. Because  as  we  saw  from  the  simulator  before, you  probably  did  the  simulation  before, but  the  temperature  is  like  a  construct. All  right?  We  realized later  what  temperature  was. But  temperature  is  nothing but  really  for  this  type  of system  is  a  proxy  for  the  kinetic  energy. So  how  quickly  these  molecules bang  around  and  hit  each  other. So  for  this  type  of  simulator, the  temperature  is  nothing  but a  measure  of  V  squared,  right? The  root  mean  square  velocity of  the  gas  there,  right? Wonderful. That  was  a  great  discussion.  Thank  you,  all. Any  other  comments?  Something  I  missed. But  we  go  to  question  two. Temperature  average  So  let  me  ask  you  this. If  you  have  the  same  initial  temperature  for a  system  with  the  same  number  of  particles, but  one  where  the  particles  have low  mass  and  another  one where  they  have  high  mass. Tempter  I'm  not  sure  I  get  it. Initial  temperature  So  if you  look  at  the  definition  of  it, so  it  depends  on  your  system. I  think  in  this  system with  the  two  dimensional, you  have  what's  called the  Boltzmann's  constant  temperature. And  then  here  you  have,  you  know, your  one  half  mass  of  your  particle  and the  root  mean  squared  velocity,  right? And  so  if  you  took  this  KB and  you  put  it  to  the  other  side, this  is  basically  what  your  temperature  is. And  so  for  a  fixed  temperature, if  you  have  something  that  has  a  higher  mass, what  do  you  expect  to  have  happen  to the  root  mean  squared  velocity  of your  particles?  Be  lower,  right? They'll  basically  look  like they're  moving  a  bit slower  with  it,  okay? That's  an  excellent  question,  though. Other  comments. Alright. Good.  Now,  second  one, if  I  can  find  it.  So  present. So,  what  does  the  direction of  heat  transfer  depend  on? We  got  a  bunch  of  answers. I'm  going  to  scroll  through. It  is  also  a  little  bit like  social  media  with  likes. Some  dislikes.  This  is  like  I mean  I  remember  when Facebook  disabled  that  feature, 'cause  we  were  worried  about  what  we'd unleash  into  the  world. Oh,  my  God. So  he  transfer  depends  on temperature between  two  objects  of  the  system. Particles  move  from  a  hotter  environment  to a  colder  one  to  reach  thermal  equilibrium. So  we  have  two  and  one  with  that. Temperature  differential, energy  differential. Okay. No,  no,  I'm  thinking. It's  deep.  I'm  not  trying  to  laugh. No,  no.  I'm  not even  I'm  not  even being  funny.  I'm  just  thinking. I  had  a  like  an  11  hour flight  and  I  got  two  young  kids, and  it  takes  me a  while  to  equilibrate,  right? Temperature  grady  and difference  of  temperatures, hot  to  cold.  I  like  that. You  know,  You  like this,  temperature  difference  high. Particles.  Yes. That's  an  interesting  statement  there on  the  high  concentration  to  low. This  really  gets  that  into  the  second  law, you  know,  later  in  Module  two. Higher  energy  transfer. So  what's  the  mechanism  of  transfer? So  here  I  see the  word  transfer  come  up  a  lot. So  what's  the  mechanism  of energy  transfer  in  this  simulation? Diffusion. This  is  like  You  know,  diffusion  is  like, if  you  were  a  scientist  or  a  philosopher, you'd  observe  this  and  write  difusion. I  want  like  a  layperson's  description. Colision.  You  know,  you  hit. That's  good.  Second  law. Oh,  look  at  that.  By  the  second. He  transfer  spontaneous  reaction. Nice  Vlocity. Yeah,  there's  a  lot  of  answers  here. Hot  the  cold. It  moves  towards  equilibrium.  Okay. Is  there  something  up  here  that um  So  I  saw this  statement  here  with the  amount  of  energy. So  the  temperature  part, I  think  I  can  get  behind. But  the  statement  about the  differences  in  energy, I'd  like  to  flesh  that  out a  little  bit  more,  right? This  is  very  important,  right? If  I  have  a  little  box  here,  right, with  a  few  number  of  particles and  partition  it  from  a  very  big  box, you  know,  with  way  more you  know,  way  more  particles. The  And  if  I told  you  here  that  this  is,  let's  say, temperature  on  the  right,  and this  is  temperature  on  the  left, and  I  need  to  be  careful  because I'm  off  the  board  here. Apologies  for  those  who  watch  Online. I'm  still  getting  the  hang  of  this. And  if  I  told  you  here  that  T  L right  is  greater  than  T R.  And  the  total  energy, let's  say  the  total  energy  on the  left  is  less  than the  total  of  the  energy  on  the  right. What  direction  do  you  expect  heat  to  flow? Left  to  right  or  right  to  left?  Yes,  please. Okay.  Other  comments. I  like  arguing,  right? Yes.  I  guess. Yes.  I  guess  that  goes  from to  temperature  square. Energy. Yeah.  Yeah.  Okay.  Okay.  Other  comments. Yes. Yeah.  Yeah.  Sure.  Thank  you  for  sharing  that. Yeah. Yes. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. This  is  great.  So  this  is  like  Darwinian. We  like, select  the  good  traits and  get  to  the  good  answers. I  couldn't  have  said  that  better  myself. Alright? If  you  want  an  everyday  experience  with  it, thermonemic,  such  big  things we  usually  call  it  reservoirs. We  talk  about  reservoirs. I  mean,  the  basic  example  is  you  take an  ice  cube  and  you put  it  out  on  earth  on  a  hot  day. If  this  is  Earth,  you  know,  and  this  is, you  know,  the  ice  cube, it's  almost  the  opposite  side, right  where  this  side  is  then  the  cold and  has  less  energy  than  here, and  you'd  get  the  reverse  with  it. The  point  is  that  the  direction  of heat  doesn't  depend  You  know, on  that,  it's  simply  due  to the  gradients  in  temperature. And  as  as  the  student, you  noted  there, it's  not  about  the  size,  right? It's  with  the  collisions  you collide  and  move  there. Okay?  But  that's a  common  misconception  with,  you  know, that  the  heat  transfer  is  dictated  by the  difference  in  the  energy  there,  okay? Great.  Any  other  questions? Comments?  Really  appreciate  the  sharing  and good  thoughtful  answers  there.  All  right. And  don't  thumbs  down unless  you  really  need  to,  next  time,  right? All  right.  So  let's  keep  going. All  right.  So,  um,  All  right. So  we  had,  you  know, this  closed  system  that  was, you  know,  then  the  thing  is  in  thermo. For  this  stage,  we're  going  to  talk about  closed  systems,  right? So  we're  talking  about  a  box.  You  know, we're  going  to  find  some  boundary  with  it. And  with  these  boxes, we  have  two  ways  of transferring  energy  into  them. We  can  do  it  with  heat  transfer, right,  or  work  transfer,  right? So  if  this  is,  I  don't  know,  like  a  piston, right  I  can  squeeze  the piston  head  down  as  it would  be  in  an  internal  combustion  engine and  transfer  work  into  it, or  you  know,  I  could  light  a  fire or  something  below  it  and  warm. Up,  right?  And  you  understood  now  from this  very  nice  discussion  that the  direction  of  the  transfer depends  on  temperature  differences. Okay. We  can  talk  about  adiabatic  processes,  right? So  adiobatic  processes  are ones  where  you  don't  have  heat  transfer. So  usually, these  are  systems  where,  you  know, they're  very  well  insulated, and  there's  no  heat,  you  know, transferred  during  a  process  there. All  right?  And  what's  important? I  keep  saying  this  word  process,  right? I  have  state  one,  and  I  go  to  state  two, right  I  have  this  process  of going  you  know,  through  it. And  so  we'll  denote,  you  know, during  that  process  of, you  know,  in  this  case, not  heating,  you  know, this  would  be  a  12,  right? So  this  is  zero. We  can  also  talk  about  it  in  terms of  rates,  thinking  about, like,  you  know,  a  heat  transfer  rate  there, then  we  put  a  little  dot a  little  dot  above  there. And  that's,  you  know,  watts  when  it's  a  rate. Excuse  me,  Jules  when it's  when  it's  just  energy. Um  In  terms  of  the  convention, and  this  is  kind  of a  little  bit  of  a  confusing  thing. So  physicists  do  it  differently than  we  engineers  do  it, but  you're  in  an  engineering  class. In  engineering,  when  we  talk  about whether  or  not  heat  transfer is  a  positive  or  a  negative  quantity, heat  in,  heat  transferred  in, we  call  positive,  work  transferred  out, we  call  positive,  right? This  has  to  do  with the  fact  that  we're  practical  people. So  we're  interested  in,  like,  putting something  in  and  getting something  out  of  it,  right? So  the  thing  we  put  in  usually  is  then  heat, and  the  thing  that  we  get  out  of  it is  usually  work,  right? Good. What  I  like  to  do  now  is  go  to  the  board. That's  also  another  feature  of what  I  like  to  do,  like  to  mix  it  up. So  I'm  going  to  derive  for  you. So  we  talked  about  heat  there. I'm  going  to  talk  now  about a  work,  a  work  trans, for  example,  with  with  this. There's  my  markers. So  what  I  want  to  present  to  you  first here  is  that  we  have  a  piston.  All  right. So  for  a  piston,  right, is  basically  like  a  cylinder, and  you  have,  like, a  plunger  or  a  head  that  you  can move  in  and  out  of  it. This  is  a  cross  sectional  view  of  that. And  the  goal  out  of  this is  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  work. And  this  marker  is  Kaput. So  garbage  can.  Alright. Um  you  have  a  pressure  that's  in  here. This  is  exerting  a  pressure  then  against the  piston  head,  which  has  an  area, which  has  an  area  then,  you  know,  A, and  this  piston  head  is  then  going  to move  a  distance  DH,  right? And  so  what  you  know  from  your  physics  class is  that  right, the  work,  you  know,  in  this  case, is  going  to  be  equal  to,  you  know, the  force,  you  know, times  this  times  this  distance,  right? So  you  have  this  work  that's  done,  like  that. And  then  into  that  distance. All  right?  So  you  have  this. The  force  in  this  case, apologies  to  those  on  the  right if  you  don't  see  me  very  well. The  force  in  this  case  is  nothing  but then  the  P  pressure  times the  area  times  times  the  DH. And  since  your  displacement  then  is parallel  to  the  force, what  we're  going  to  have  here  then  is this  ADH  then  is  basically  a  DV,  right? We  have  this  area  times  that. You're  going  to  displace  volume P  PDV  like  that. We  do  a  basically, we  do  a  finite  transformation  there. What  we  can  speak  about  is  the  integral, so  the  work  then  is  then equal  to  the  integral  from,  let's  say, state  one  to  state  two  of this  of  this  PDV  there. To  know  this  information,  right? You  need  to  basically  know  how P  depends  on  volume  to  get  this  right. You  need  to  basically  need  to  substitute P  with  the  V  to  have  the full  information  with  it. This  is  a  common  feature also  in  thermodynamics. We  talk  about  P, VP  or  PV  diagrams,  right? So  in  this  case,  let's  say  this was  our  state  one. Let's  say  this  is  our  state  two. Let's  say  that's  the  path that  we  follow.  All  right? You  know,  then  this  work  then  is  going  to  be nothing  but  the  area  under  that  curve,  right? Yes,  please. Yeah,  because  I'm  getting  sloppy. So  yes,  P  V.  Thank  you. Other  comments.  I  did  that  to  check  you, right?  All  right. And  so  then  yeah, in  this  case,  then,  you  know, we  could  talk  about  then  a  V, in  this  case,  a  V  one  to  a  V  two. So  if  you  were  to then  you  know,  integrate  like  that. You'd  have  here  then  your  V one  to  your  V  two, then  of  your  P  D V.  And  what  you  would have  then  is  this  curve, right  this  P  as  a  function of  V  that  I  draw  there, you  would  substitute  in  and  get  it,  right? Cookie  cutter  stuff,  Calc  one, not  really  rocket  science, but  the  important  features I  want  to  introduce  to  you here  is  that  we're  talking about  usually  PDV  as  a  work. That's  quite  common  and  the  use  of  diagrams. Basically  the  use  of  equilibrium diagrams  there. The  second  thing  that  comes  up  from  this. Maybe  I  can  slide  this  to  the  side, although  I'm  not  really in  a  good  spot  with  it. So  we  can  move  that  down. So  that's  one  process,  right? One  to  two  is  there. But  in  thermo, especially  with  engineering  cycles, you  know,  we're  interested  in  going, you  know,  1-2,  two  to  three, three  to  four,  and  ultimately ending  up  where  you  ended  up. So  if  we  draw  that  here,  so  this  is  then  P, this  is  V.  Let's  say  we  do  a  loop, around  the  world  like  that,  here's  your  one, here  two,  here  three,  here  four. That's  your  one  prime. This  is  then  your  three  prime  there. If  you  go  1-3  and  then  three  to  one, we're  moving  clockwise  like  that, what  you  would  see  is  you'd  have  if you  focus  on  the  first  integration  or the  second  integration  there, right,  this  would  be  the  area  that  you  would have  under  your  curve. If  you  did  then  the  first  integration, the  first  integration  is  nothing but  the  red  that  I  showed  you before  plus  All  right. This  extra  area  that you  had  that  you  had  above. So  if  you  follow  this  as a  full  path,  in  the  end, the  net  work  out  of  the  system. And  this  is  out  of  the  system  cause we  follow  it  clockwise, is  going  to  be  the  area  in  green  here,  right? And  that's  an  important  thing  there. We  call  that  process  a  cycle. Sorry.  Yes.  Cool. Any  comments  about  that? So  we  took  your  Yes,  please.  Clockwise. There's  going  to  be  work  For what  I've  drawn  here,  right? Yeah,  but  if  you  go  in  the  reverse, what  happens  if  you  go  counterclockwise. So  then  you  don't  have work  going  out  of  the  system. You're  doing  work  on the  system  in  such  a  case. That's  a  good  question.  Yes,  please.  Sure. So  I  want  to  connect  it  with  this. So  if  you  accept  what  I've  said  here, that  if  I'm  moving  right  from  state  one to  state  two  here, the  work  of  that  process, w12  is  the  area  below  that  curve. That's  what  I'm  claiming  here,  right? I  analogous  to  what  I've  drawn  there, let's  say  the  one instead  of  one  to  21  to  three. So  let's  say,  make  that  one  long  process. The  work  in  that  case  done there  is  going  to  be  the  area  of the  green  is  going to  be  the  area  below  the  curve, which  according  to  my  diagram, here  is  the  green  plus  the  red,  right? That's  the  area  below. Now,  if  I  come  back  from  0.3  to  0.1, in  this  case,  the  area  below that  curve  is  just  the  red,  right? So  in  a  cycle  then,  the  net  work  is going  to  be  the  difference  between  one, three, here  and  31  there, which  is  just  going  to  be  the  area enclosed  by that  it's  like  almost  in  eps,  not  a  circle. Yes,  please. So  in  in  in  In  engineering  analysis, we  talk  about  work  being positive  when  work  is  out,  right? So  in  this  case,  let's  say  you  have  a  piston, and  the  volume  expands,  right? So  you  know,  you  have basically  the  lifting  up  here. So  let's  say  that's  your  P  D  V.  In  a  very, very  simplistic  sense, this  is  an  extremely  simplified  case. Let's  say  that  that's  like  a  V  two, minus  a  V  one,  where  V  two  is greater  than  V  one,  right? So  that's  going  to  be a  case  where  you're  doing  work. You're  transferring  work  out,  right? If  you  do  the  opposite, where  you  start  to  compress. You  start  to  compress  a  system, In  that  case,  there, so  you  go  from  this  high  state  to  the  low. So  you  have  a  V  one  minus  a  V  two. If  V  two  is  greater  than  V  one,  right? That's  going  to  be  a  negative  term, and  you're  going  to  have a  negative  work,  right? Consistent  with  what  I've  shown  here,  right? So  I  go  from  a  low  volume to  a  high  volume,  right? That's  a  work  transfer  out. And  here  I  go  from  a  high volume  to  a  low  volume. So  that's  work  transferred  in expansion  compression,  like  a  spring. It's  the  exact  opposite. So  just  to  confuse  you  and  make  this  terrible and  have  a  reputation,  you  know,  we  do  this. But  so  he  transferred  into a  control  volume  there  we considered  as  a  positive  quantity,  okay? I  am  going  to  bring  it  home. I  would  love  to  discuss  more. We  can  talk  more  after,  class. So  like  I  said,  for  today, I  told  you  I'd  introduced  the  concept of  energy,  define  its  forms. We  discuss  the  nature  of  internal  energy, define  the  concept  of  heat, and  the  terminology  associated  with the  energy  transfer  of  heat and  run  a  simulation. I  believe  I've  done  that  for a  few  minutes  you  know,  early  on  time. So  what  I'm  gonna  do  here is,  I'm  just  going  to  call  it  closed. And  if  you  have  any  questions,  please, you  know,  join  me  up  at  the  front. And  again,  I  want  to  note  here  with Thomas  office  hours  and all  of  that,  if you  want  to  meet  with  the  him. Thank  you.  Have  a  good  day.
