Should  be. Applications,  baby.  Not  yet. Today,  we  do  other  stuff. So  we  start  with  the  air  first, and  then  we  do  harder.  I'll  talk  about  it. Alright,  I  got  310.  I'm  gonna  get  started. Today,  we're  going  to  talk about  gas  power  cycles, and  also  the  mid  term. So,  don't  just  chill. Alright?  As  soon  as  I  get  back  to  my  office, everything  will  be  uploaded Calmet  and  B  courses. I'm  going  to  take  you  through  this. My  intention  is  not  to  stress  you  out, but  to  take  you  through  some  of  it. The  second  thing  I  want  to say  is  we  worked  very  hard, especially  Thomas  and  Andrew  put a  huge  effort  into integrating  the  assessment, doing  it  in  a  meaningful  way, and  with  feedback,  for  a  lot  of  this  stuff, the  way  you'll  see  it  is  you  see comments  to  And  again, our  mindset  here  is we  want  you  all  to  do  well. I  want  you  to  thrive.  We  have  office  hours, right,  we  have  the  discussion  sections, and  all  of  it. And  if  you  can't  make  that,  you  send an  e  mail,  and  we  talk. But  just  the  numbers  for the  statistics  people  that  like  it,  right? We  149  that  we  went  through. It's  also  online,  just  so  you  know, it's  on  the  page  one  of  the  slides. Our  average  and  our  median  are  at  70%, and  that's  our  standard  deviation. So  more  or  less  pretty  normal. If  we  talk  about  the  problem, so  as  some  of  you  noted,  we  had  a  variance. So  for  the  problem  A  there, or  Varian  one,  conceptual  59. Per  varian  B  with  three  for problem  B  at  58,  61  and  64%. And  then  for  problem  C,  73  86  and  87%. After  a  lot  of  discussion  with the  GSIs  and  thoughtful  consideration, what  we  have  done  to  correct  for perceived  differences and  difficulty  and  whatever, even  if  they  were  intentionally made  to  be,  you  know, very  similar  remit  adjustments  to  then raise  these  58  and  61  and  64, and  this  86  and  73  up  to  the  87%  with  it. So  in  short,  you,  like  a  half  a  point  or one  point  depending  boost. With  it,  we  did  not  take  anyone  down  with  it. The  final  comment  I'm  going  to make  about  this,  right. So  you  know,  the  phrase  I  want  to  use  here is  maybe  a  little  bit  of  canary  in the  coal  mine  for those  who  know  what  that  means. I  want  to  focus  in  on  problem  B here  because  this  is  really foundational  for  what  comes in  mid  term  two  in  the  final. And  so  here  on  the  horizontal  axis, I  have  the  score, so  this  is  high, and  then  this  is  sort  of  low. And  you  can  look  these  slides. But  I  think  that  the  message I  want  to  send  is, you  know,  if  you're  up  here, keep  on  keeping  on  here, maybe  you  had  a  problem  with schematic  in  some  points,  and If  you  see  yourself  in  this  bucket  with  it, the  mentality  I  want  to  have  is, you  know,  you  sort  of  knock  down. How  do  you  get  back  up?  How  do  you  respond? I  grew  up  in  the  time of  Michael  Jordan,  right? That  was  like  a  famous  thing  he  said. And  so  here  what  I  want  to say  is  then  get  up  and  let's  talk. So  come  to  my  office  office  hour, send  an  e  mail. I  think  that  this  is  the  moment  to  do  it, we're  going  to  start talking  about  a  lot  of  things like  the  cycles  and  these  elements. Thermo  is  a  very  hard  course. To  catch  up  from  if  you're  behind  with  it. But  if  there's  ever  a  time  to  do  it, it's  with  this,  right? Because  when  we're  working  with a  lot  of  these  elements, there's  a  lot  of  chances  to  be able  to  get  caught  back  up  with  this  sort of  solving  approach  and  get you  back  on  track. So,  I  mean,  the  tools  are  here. We're  here  for  you,  but  it's  up  to  you  to decide  if  you  want  to  use  that,  right? Any  comments  about  that?  I'm  not  going  to field  a  ton  of  questions, but  I  will  take  one  or  two. Yes,  please.  As  soon as  I  get  back  to  my  office, as  fast  as  the  Internet  is  there over  Wi  Fi  or  land  to  B  courses, and  then  Cal  Central,  I  will  do  it. One  more  question.  Next? Yeah,  already  getting  posted. So  I  short. Yes.  I  will  do  that. But  what's  more  important, first  of  all,  is  that  I  get  that, and  then  also  the graded  assessments,  too,  right? So  you  get  to  see  your  assessment, you'll  see  our  rubric  and  all  of  that. And  if  you  have  any  issues  with  it, I  welcome  it,  you  know, but  it's  got  to  be  done  within  a  week. Okay?  So  shoot  me  a  message, especially  if  we  made  a  clear  error. I  welcome  that,  send  me  a  message, and  we  can  look  over  that  together. All  right,  I  don't  want  to penalize  you  for  nothing. Okay.  One  more  since  that was  such  a  good  question  for  Max. Okay,  you  all  get  your  chance  to  speak. Great.  Alright.  So  today, we're  going  to  talk  about  cycles. Right?  We  need  in  some  applications  of  these. And  we're  gonna  talk  about some  gas  power  cycles and  some  simplifying  assumptions. And  then  I  said, solve  a  problem  based  on  auto, but  actually,  I  want  to  do  Brighton  today. I  woke  up  and  thought,  Braighton feels  good.  We'll  do  auto  next  time. Alright.  Um  Yeah, so  what  is  a  gas  power  cycle? Before  you  ask  yourself  that, you  have  to  think  about  what is  a  power  cycle. All  right?  So  in  this,  that  sounds  ominous. So  here  we  have  power  generation, you  have  a  cycle, we  basically  produce  power, or  you  have  a  cycle  where  you're transferring  and  moving  heat,  right? So  the  left  side,  this  is, you  know,  power  generation  power  cycle. The  right  one  we  would  call  as a  refrigeration  or  heat  pump, a  heat  pump  cycle. Um  Within  power  cycles, we  make  a  distinction  with respect  to  the  working  fluid,  right? So  if  we're  working  with air  or  gas,  primarily  it's  air. We're  usually,  you  know,  primarily  air. We  call  that  a  gas  cycle.  All  right? If  you're  working  with  something that  involves  phase  change, so  the  most  important  being, let's  say,  water,  right?  With  it. That's  called  a  vapor,  a  vapor  cycle. Implicit  to  that  with  a  vapor  is  that  right, it  might  change  phase,  or  you might  have  condensation  of  it, you  might  be  boiling  it  here, so  that's  a  vapor  a  vapor  cycle,  right? So  just  some  information. The  second  distinction  is  made  between what  are  called  closed  and  open  cycles. If  you  think  about  a  power  plant  there, the  water  within  the power  plant,  the  boiling, the  turbine,  the  condensation, the  pumping  of  it,  that  water doesn't  leave  the  cycle. Actually,  an  insane  amount of  care  goes  into  making sure  that  water  doesn't  get  contaminated, nothing  leaves  and all  of  that  to  make  sure  it  works. That's  a  closed  cycle.  You  have other  ones  that  are  open  cycle, so  you  think  about  something  like  an  engine, especially  like  a  jet  engine. You  think  about a  jet  engine  or  whatever  there. You  don't  cycle  the  exhaust  fluid back  to  the  intake, presumably  for  obvious  reasons. There.  So  yeah,  so  closed  and and  open.  All  right. And  then  when  it  comes  to  then the,  those  sort  of  engine. So  like,  the  classical  one there  with  respect  to  internal  combustion, right? You're  running  with  So  spark  ignition. This  is,  you  know, as  recently  as  like  five  or  ten  years  ago, what  dominated  most,  you  know, engines  that  run  on  gasoline. All  engines  that  run  on  gasoline basically  run  on this  version  of  you  know, putting  a  fuel  in,  compressing  it, spark,  you  know,  combustion  expansion  there. This  is  right  in an  auto  cycle  there and  how  we  do  it  on  the  external  combustion. So  again,  if  you  look  at  something like  the  power  plant  there, you  are  not  mixing  the  fluids  here,  right? You're  boiling  water,  but,  like, the  way  you're  transferring  the  heat in  the  combustion  process  is  not actually  happening  within the  device  itself,  right? You  have  tubes,  those  tubes  on  the  inside, you're  circulating  water  and  on  the  outside. That's  where  you're,  you  know,  combusting  and transferring  heat  in,  right? All  right. Yeah.  And  so  in  terms  of the  solving  approaches,  and  again, this  is  sort  of  important  on mid  term  one  is  to recognize  when  you're  dealing  with something  else  like  a  steady  flow  system, right? So  for  example,  like  a  turbine, here  the  volume  of  the turbine  doesn't  change,  right? So  if  I  draw  the  control  volume,  you  know, here  of  this,  which  please  draw  it  always. So  I  know,  we're analyzing  the  mass  flow and  the  energy  change, right,  that  volume  does  not  change. Right?  What  changes  is  that  here  I have  an  insanely  high  pressure  and high  entropy  and  then  here  I  have a  m  a  much  lower  one, and  then  that  ultimately  ends  up  driving the  the  work  transfer  process. But  you  know, the  equations  that  you're,  you  know, thinking  of  here  then  are  of  the  variety  of dE  CV  dt  is  equal  to  e  dot  n, right  minus  e  dot  out.  Right? It's  a  steady  process,  e  dot  is  e  dot  out. The  energy  within  the  control volume  does  not  change, right  in  those  problems. It  is  by  definition  steady,  right? Whereas,  if  you  look  at  something that's  like  a  piston  cylinder  device. So  again,  I'm  thinking  like,  you  know, the  auto  cycle,  diesel  cycles. You  think  about  diesel  cycle there  for  like  the  sem  trucks  and  all  that, those  things,  there  is  variation,  right? You  have  First  of  all, the  volume  is  varying,  right? So  here,  you  set  up  at  a  large  volume, you  compress  it,  right, you  expand  it,  you  know,  compress  it. Again,  so  there's  variations  there. And  you  know,  we're  going  to analyze  each  step  of  that,  right? Go  from  this  step  to  this  step,  and we're  going  to  analyze  how  energy  is transferred  in  to  or  out  of  there  and the  related  property  changes with  it  to  be  able  to  say something  about  the  efficiency of  those  systems,  right? Next  thing  I  want  to  note  is in  your  carno  cycle. So  we  had  this  a  couple  of  weeks  ago, where  we  had  thought  about,  we had  kind  of  a  thought  experiment  and  said, Okay, what  would  be  the maximum  efficiency  that  one  could  achieve, if  you  had  a  reservoir  at a  hot  temperature  and  another reservoir  at  a  cold  temperature, you  transfer  heat  from  the  hot one  into  an  engine and  then  back  out  to  the  cold. What's  the  maxim  amount of  work  we  can  get  out of  it  there,  right? Is  your  PV  diagram,  how  that  looks  like. And  then  the  TS  diagram. And  the  point  is  that  the  heat  addition processes  here  at  the  high  temperature. The  heat  end  of  the  system happens  at  the  high  temperature, and  the  heat  out  happens  at the  low  temperature  there. And  the  process  of  producing, you  know,  work  or compressing  or  the  I  and  tropic,  right? So  it  is  intrinsically  reversible. We  don't  have  changes  in  entropy that  are  happening  there. So,  you  know,  I'm  just  of  jogging your  memory  for  a  minute  there,  right? Cool. Yeah.  And  so  this  could  then  be,  you  know, so  when  we  did  that  before,  we  did  that for  for  the  piston  systems. This  could  then,  you  know,  be  an  example then  of  an  alternative, sort  of  steady  flow  system, if  one  wanted  to  imagine  that. That's  a  lot  of  talking, and  I'm  kind  of  bored  with  it. So  what  I  want  to  do  now  is  I  want  to look  basically  at  this  plot  here. I  go  to  make  you  do  some  work.  Since  I spent  all  night  in the  last  several  days  grading. With  this.  So  I  haven't  launched  it  yet. Just  give  me  a  second  to  launch, but  here's  the  question. So  you're  given  the  carno  cycle. What's  the  formula  for  Q  in  Q  out, and  what's the  thermal  efficiency  of  the  system? I'm  going  to  open  this  really  quick to  launch  the  poll. Are  there  any  questions  about that  activity  before  we  get  started? Tons?  Was  there  or  no? Okay.  An  involuntary  reflex  to  carno. I  also  have  those  sometimes.  Okay. Great.  So  that's  live. I'm  going  to  put  this  back up  here  and  I'll  circulate. So  I  take  about  5  minutes, and  then  we'll  come back  and  analyze  that together.  And  then  do  Brayton. Oh,  246  type  12  141-820-2224,  206-46-6061. Hey.  I  was  invited  Canation.  Oh,  how  is  that? Yeah,  it's  good.  I  just  did  it. Oh,  that's  nice.  And  so I  thought  I  heard  you say  you  didn't  have  lunch. I  don't  know. Maybe  I  don't  think  I  did  today. Yeah.  That's  good.  But  how  was  it? You  know  Rich  have  you  met  him  before?  No. Of  sort  of. Sorry. Here.  Thank  you. Question  for  the  weekend.  I'm  going. I'll  be  in  s.  So I  think  I  more  than  a  more  repression  of. The  isotropic. But  the  heat  transfer  processes  are. All  right. I  at  all? Yes.  Trouble  is  on  a  mass. Da b. Okay. Okay.  Question  submit?  I  submitted.  Okay. All  right.  So  I would  say  I'm  going  to  present  in  a  sec. So  if  you  haven't  submitted, please  do  it  now. Cool. Okay.  Here  11, 12, Okay. Okay.  We  have  a  lot  of  answers, a  lot  to  discuss  then. Does  anyone?  Does  anyone feel  like  you're  in  a  sharing  mood? Austin,  right?  Several  answers that  are  exactly  the  same.  Which  is  just. We  just  like  the  S  equals  integral of  constant T  equals. Like  this,  right?  Okay. Yeah.  And  so  the  key  thing  is that  according  to your  analysis  is  you  can  take the  heat  or  the  Mylanta. So  you're  taking  the  temperature out  of  the  integral  because  in Carno  we're  transferring  heat  to  and from  reservoirs,  right?  Yeah.  Okay. Is  reversible  Reversible.  So  these  comments? Okay.  Versi  Reversible. No  change  in  Yes. And  this  is  for  the  heat  Q. Okay.  All  right. So  I  think  we  have  the  Hs up  there.  We've  got  the  S. Okay.  Q  two  minus  one.  Okay. Another  one.  So  I would  I  would  yes,  go  for  it,  please. It's  not  stretching,  right? Say  it  again,  sorry. Q  plus  W.  Sure? Yeah,  sorry. N  over  V  DV, which  is  the  sorry,  M. Mis There's a  negative  sign  that  I  missed. Yeah.  Okay.  Give  me  a  second. Okay.  So  I  think  with  that,  right? So  this  is  represented  done. I  think  the  only  one  left  is  this  one,  right? The  PV  L  N  T  ratio, if  I  didn't  get  that. Or  is  there  another  one  answer up  here  that's  not  represented? One  Mississippi  two  Mississippi  three. Okay,  so  I  would  like  to  come  back  to  discuss now  the  T  S  is because  now  actually we  have  difference,  right? So  here  I  see  TCS  four  minus  S  three. I  see  tel  S, t  TS  two  minus  S  one  here. And  then  TH  So  what  the declared  TS  TH  S  two  minus  S  one. So  which  group  had any  of  those  ones  that  I've  commented  on? Okay,  they  had  one,  but  you  guys  talked. Is  there  another  one? Here.  Pietro. I  did  at  that. Did  the  other  group  have  similar  thinking? Yes.  And  so  what would  be  the  meaning  of  this  one  then  here? Q,  right? And  a  nice  way  to  visualize  this. I  find  that  is  if  we  if  we  go  back  and recall  our  TS  diagram for  the  carno  cycle,  right? So  here,  left  to  right. I'm  at  the  high  temperature. Here's  the  cold  temperature. Heat  addition  should  increase  entropy,  right? So  I'll  go  from  left  to  right  here. And  the  area,  the  area under  that  curve  is  what? Q,  Q,  which  Q?  QN,  right? So  the  area  here  is  equal  to Q  if  it's  a  little  less, yeah,  this  is  Q  QN  like  that. Okay?  All  right? And  then  the  other  way, if  we  went  the  other  way  with it  from  here  to  here,  right? So  from  this  state  to  this  state. And  I  think  in  the  right? So  if  you  went  from  here  to  here, the  area  under  that  curve  would  then  be  what? Right?  It's  Q  out,  right?  With  that. For  these  other  answers, here  where  we  got  in  and  we  started  to  look into  the  you  know, the  entops  and  all  of  that. This  is,  like,  correct  way  of  thinking. But  one,  especially  in  the  case  of  this, what's  an  assumption  you  have  to  make? If  you  want  to  work  with  relations, like,  you  know,  anything  that  ever appears  as  MRT  in  it. What  assumption  are  you making  about  the  working  fluid? It's  an  ideal  gas,  right? So  it  may  be  valid,  but  it's  valid  then  for a  subset  of  working  fluids. There.  And  then,  yes,  certainly, when  we  talk  about  for something  like  a  steady  flow  device. If  you  have  a  steady  flow  device, and  then  we're  looking  at  the  heat  additions, obviously,  this  is  also,  you  know, comp  a  completely  valid  way  to  analyze, you  know,  heat  addition  with  it. I  just  would  say  that  for the  more  generalized  case, when  we  look  at  something  like  Carno, Carno  doesn't  depend  on  the  working  fluid, and  it  also  doesn't  assume anything  really  about  the  process. All  you  need  to  know  is  that  you transfer  heat  from  a  high  temperature, you  transfer  heat  into  a  reservoir that's  at  a  cold  temperature. And  I  think  to the  point  that  was  brought up  before  that's  mentioned, right,  you  have  reversibility,  right? And  the  reversible  processes  that  we speak  about  then  are the  work  transfer,  right? So  this  is  the  work  transfer out  and  the  work  transfer  in, and  then  those  are  ice  and  tropic,  right? So  you  jump  from  the  hot  to the  cold  temperature  along  constant  entropy, and  the  cold  to  the  hot  when you  do  your  compression  is also  along  a  line  of  constant  anentropy. So  that's  completely  totally completely  correct  statement,  but  you  know, where  it's  important  is  then in  the  term  reversible then  is  really  useful  then  when  we  look  at the  work  because  we do  have  changes  in  entropy. This  is  important,  right?  Whenever  we transfer  heat  in  or  heat  out, we  do  have  a  change  in entropy  associated  with  it,  okay? But  this  is  all  very  good. Alright.  So  now  the  Q  out. Unfortunately,  I  kind  of  let the  cat  out  of  the  bag with  the  one  statements. But  yeah,  so  here  then  with the  S  two  and  the  S  one,  right? That  would  be  the  heat  addition. The  three  to  four  with  the  T  two  is  then Like,  why  do  they?  Okay,  Yeah,  of  course. Then  it's  inverse  cases  of, of  the  ones  that  we  presented. So  I  see  a  lot  of  the  same  ones are  basically  the  inverse. And  just  to  make  clear,  right? So  the  Q  out  then is  the  area  under  the  curve,  right? From  the  TC  between  those  two  rites, and  more  specifically, I'm  going  to  go  out  on  a  lim  and  say  that, yeah,  this  is  the  S  four  right  minus. Let  me  think  about  this.  How  do  we  number  it? I  want  to  get this  right  without  being  confusing. Can  somebody  remind  me  then  on the  slides  that  I've  given? Where  do  we  start  with  one? The  top  left  is  one,  one, two,  three,  and  four. All  right,  so  yes. Then  the  area  end  of  the  curve  then  for the  QN  for  little  QN  is  then  TH, right,  S  two  minus  one. And  then  for  Q,  right? If  I'm  staying  with  the  convention, and  I'm  interested  here  in the  magnitude  of  the  change,  right? This  is  then  TC.  And  then  this  is  going  to  be S  three  minus  S  four. If  we  went  the  other  way, with  it  and  we  did the  S  four  minus  the  S  three. It's  fine.  But  then  if  I  wrote  Q is  equal  to  T  C  S  four  minus  S  three? Maybe  I  don't  know  the  direction  of heat  transfer  and  where  it's  going. This  is  then  just going  to  be  a  negative,  right? That's  going  to  be  a  negative  term. So  if  you  don't  know  if it's  in  or  out  and  you calculate  that  difference  and it's  negative,  right? It  means  that  you  have  a  reduction  in the  entropy  of  that  element or  in  that  process  there, which  means  that  you're taking  heat  out,  right? Okay.  Good.  Any  comments about  those  two  before  we  jump? All  clear.  Okay,  so  then  the  final  one, I  can  of  the  way  here.  All  right. So  we  have  one  t  TH  TH  minus  t  L two  minus  one  divided  by t  has  two  minus  S  one,  S  TH. All  right. 100  W divided  by  Q  divided  by  W  N two  t one  is  d  d  two. One  TH on minus. T  t.  Yes,  that's  there. Q  minus  Q  N.  T  by  t,  t  b, Q,  divided  by  Q. Okay.  Many  answers. So  I  guess  the  first  thing  is that  in  this  case  here, I  see  some  cases  where  we  talk  about  Hs, right?  We  about  twos. We're  talking  about  23  here. So  I  think  that  if I  come  back  to  the  plot  that  I  had,  T  two, would  then  be  according to  that  convention  in  T  one, is  also  then  equal  to  TH  in  the  convention, T  three  is  equal  to  T  four  is  equal  to T  cold  according  to  that  convention,  right? I'm  not  sure  if  that's  what  was  implied with  with  these  cases  or  not. Okay. All  right,  so  if  that's  the  case, then  for  a  case  like  that,  right, you'll  end  up  with  a zero,  if  on  the  other  hand, this  is  then,  like  a  T  cold  minus a  T  hot  divided  by  a  T  hot,  right? What  you're  going  to  end  up  is  a  T  by  a  T  hot minus  a  minus  one,  I  would  see  here. Right?  In  this  case  here, this  is  then,  by  definition, what's  given  as  the  efficiency  of  Carno. So  if  you  basically  look  into  the  textbook, you  would  see  you  would  see  that. QO  divided  by  WN. This  is  an  interesting  response. This  is  usually  what  we're  thinking  about, though  when  we  speak  about  a  heat  pump. Right?  So  an  assumption  like  this,  right? So  when  we  think  about  efficiencies, what's  desirable,  you  put  in  the  numerator, and  then  what  you  have  to  pay  is in  the  denominator  with  that. This  is  the  same  expression, but  written  in  reverse,  right? That's  another  correct  way of  basically  expressing, that  T  TH  by  T  minus  one. This  is  sort  of  similar  to  this. What  happens  here  is  that  since, in  this  case,  TH  divided  by  TL. This  could  end  up  being, like  a  very  large  value. So  if  you  had  this  situation  here, you'll  end  up  probably  with some  cases  where  ETA  can  be  greater  than  one, and  that's  not  that's  not  valid,  right? With  this.  Alright.  And,  you  know,  again, just  to  remind  you  with  this, I'll  try  to  bring  it  home  and  then get  onto  Brayton  here. If  we  go  with  right, the  assuming  that  our  Ita  is  our  W out  divided  by  our  QN  like  that. How  do  you  get this  information  from  a  plot  like  that? And  not  just  from  the  textbook of  knowing  what  Ia  is. So  I  don't  tell  you  what  W  is, right?  Q  in  we've  done. Howard. And  my  question  is  which  curve? Exactly.  And  so  then, if  you  look  at  if  we  do  like a  first  law  analysis  of assuming  that  this  is  a  steady  system, right,  we're  going  to  have  a  Q  in,  right? And  this  is  going  to  have  to  be  our  W plus  our  Q,  right? And  so  if  I'd  say  QN  minus Q  is  equal  to W.  We  said  that  the  QN  is  the  area  above, you  know,  this  curve  to  nothing. Q  is  to  nothing. And  so  therefore,  the  difference  has  to be  the  W  out  there,  right? So  if  you  put  that  into  the  e  here. So  you  have  QN  minus  Q  divided  by  Q,  right? Which  is  then  basically  equal  to one  minus  Q  divided  by  Qn,  right? Or  one  minus  t.  In  this  case,  it's  T  cold, or  we  could  call  it  t,  t  cold, or  it  could  be  t  four  or  t  three, times  S  three  minus  S  four, divided  by  t  h  times S  two  minus  S  one,  right? And  what  do  you  say  about these  differences  in  entropy? They're  the  same.  Right?  So  there's one  minus  T  coal  divided  by  T  t. Okay? You're  all  nodding. That's  what  you  all  thought  and  did. Good.  Alright.  Cool.  Alright.  So  that's just  remind  you  then  of  Carno. Thank  you  for  participating. Okay. All  right. C. Good. Yeah. And  so  what  you'll  see in  the  textbook  at  Primer, and  then  I'll  get  into  this  or maybe  I'll  speed  through  this  part  just  to get  into  the  example  is  that  in  the  book, they  talk  about  a  lot  about this  air  standard  assumption, and  in  short  what  it  means  is  that in  especially  think  about, like,  you  know,  jets,  right, you  feed  in  air,  you  feed in  fuel,  you  combust. Obviously, this  is  a  super  complicated  system,  right? You  need  to  know  a  lot  of  information  about this  chemical  species  and whatever  that  comes  out. It  turns  out  that  for  many  cases, what  I  described  here, the  actual  scenario  looks an  awful  lot  like  air coming  in  and  heat  addition. Right? So  you  assume  that the  properties  of  the  fluid, specific  heats  and  whatever or  enthalpies  and  all of  that  are  essentially  just  that of  air,  right? As  a  first  approximation, which  is  apparently  a  pretty good  one  there,  okay? So,  what  I'd  like  to  do  now, so  the  slides  that  you  have  there are  basically  the  analysis  of  auto. What  I'd  like  to  do right  now  is  to  go  through an  analysis  of  another  system, which  is  called  Breton. So  this  can  be  used  For example,  as  like  a  power  plant, you  want  to  use  air  as  a  working  fluid, but  you  can  also  think  about  this  for also  analyzing  propulsion,  right? So  when  you  get  to  propulsion you  want  to  do  analysis, Brayton  is  going  to  be  the  cycle that  we  do,  right? And  so  what  does  it  consist  of,  right? So  it  consists  of?  You  have  a  compressor. Alright?  You  have  a  compressor. And  this  is  connected  to  the  turbine,  right? So  your  turbine  here,  right? It  produces  a  network  out,  right? But  it's  also  part of  that  work  right  that  it  generates, in  addition  to  having  something  out, is  also  going  towards the  compression  process  itself. All  right.  You  have  heat  exchangers? Again,  this  is  the  simplification,  right? We  don't  have  the  combustion and  whatever  happening  within  it. We  assume  that  there's a  heat  addition,  right? That  happens  between  states,  let's  say, two  and  three  like  this,  and then  heat  that's  transferred  out  4-1. The  reality  is  that,  you  know, you  would  be  bringing  air  in  Right? You  would  do  that  combustion, you  know,  process  there, and  then  you  would  basically  be delivering  then,  you  know, an  exhaust  air  that's  that's  out. So  again,  if  you're  thinking  about something  like  a  jet,  right, Air  would  basically  be coming  into  here  being  fed, combustion  would  happen  within  here, and  then  it'd  be exhausted  at  that  point,  right? So  the  term  that  you  need  to  know  for this  is  called  pressure  ratio,  right? So,  essentially,  the  ratio  of the  compression  pressures  that  you  have  from the  inlet  to  after  compression  is  one. And  what  you're  going to  be  asked  to  determine  in a  lot  of  these  problems  are things  like  the  thermal  efficiency. So  as  the  final  part,  and the  intermediate  steps  along  the  way, we're  going  to  determine the  temperatures  at  the  outlets  of our  compressor  and  our  turbine,  right? Good.  Mm.  You  got  many  cookies  here. People  want  them  at  the  end. I  need  the  energy. C. Yeah.  So  the  pressure. So  at  the  inlet  coming  into  the  compressor, so  we're  told  we  have  a  P  one, which  is  equal  to  140  KPA, which  is  fed,  O  pressure  ratio. So  our  P  two  divided  by  our  P  one. This  is  basically  the  definition  of  RP. RP  then  for  this  problem  is  1,700, so  1,700  KPA,  divided by  140  KPA  here. All  right. Um,  The  inlet  temperature, so  we  the  inlets  or  at  T  one  is  then  equal  to 40  degrees  C.  And  we're  given also  in  this  problem  a  volumetric  flow  rate. So  our  V  dot,  volumetric  flow  rate  by the  volume  with  a  dot  above  it  is  equal  to 800  cubic  meters/minute  there. That's  for  the  inlet  case for  the  inlet  for  T  three, T  three  is  then  what's being  fed  into  the  turbine after  the  transfer  so  is  1,300. Degrees  C  like  this. Some  other  information  that  we're  given, so  we're  not  going  to  assume  that these  are  isentropic  processes. We're  given  some  information  about the  efficiency. So  the  efficiency  of  the  compressor, we're  told  is  0.84.  All  right. And  the  efficiency  of  the  turbine. We're  told  is  equal  to  0.80  0.85,  right? Our  working  fluid  and  our  fluid here  is  is  air, and  our  gas  constant  is  equal  to 287  js  per  kilogram  Calvin. All  right?  Good.  All  right. So,  we  can  use  the  facts. So  we  have  knowledge  about  the  P  one,  right? We  know  P  one,  and  we  know  T  one.  All  right. So  what  this  means is  that  we  can  know  the  the enthalpy  one  and  entropy  one,  There. We  also  know  the  specific  volume is  from  that. You  can  also  figure  out  the  specific  volume by  knowing  and  applying the  ideal  to  gas  equation  for  that. You  have  your  R  T one  divided  by  P  one  to  get  it. You  can  do  it  either  way  with  that. Our  mass  flow  rate  then  by  knowing now  this  or  our  mass  flow  rate is  Is  equal  to our  V  dot  divided  by  the  V  one, and  this  is  valid,  right  because  it's a  steady  flow  device. So  as  long  as  we  knew  the elementary  flow  rate  at  the  inlet. We  know  the  property  at  that  inlet, we  basically  get  the  mass flow  rate  from  that. All  right. Good.  So  now  we  move  on  to  state  two. So  if  we  go  on  now  to  our  state  two  of  this, so  we  know  that  P  two  as  I  mentioned  before, is  basically  equal  to  P  one times  this  pressure  ratio. I've  already  computed  it  then  for  you  what the  resulting  one  is. And  if  we  were going  to  proceed  with  like  a  normal  analysis, assuming  that  things  are  basically  entropic before  taking  into  account the  fact  that  the  efficiencies, what  you  could  do  first,  to  say  that S  two  is  equal to  S  one  with  this. And  basically  with  this  information, you  have  everything,  right? So  you  can  know  then your  H  two,  at  this  point. You  could  also  know  the  T  two  at  this  point, which  is  what  we which  is  what  we're  interested  in. Okay?  You  know  the  H  two, I  think  we  usually  call  this  h2s, right  in  this  case.  All  right. And  that's  important  because if  you  think  back  to what  basal  with  the  compressors and  with  the  turbines. So  the  actual  the  efficiency  of  this  is equal  to  right  h2s  minus  one. And  then  this  is  divided  by  H two  actual  minus  H  one  here. And  in  the  case  of  the  turbine, what  you  have  is  that  it's  H three  minus  H  four  actual. These  are  all  enthalpies, H  three  minus  h4s,  right? Good.  All  right. So  we  can  come  to  state  three. So  for  State  three  from state  three  to  to  state  two. So  P  three  we'll  say  is  then  equal  to  P  two, that  being  the  case because  it's  a  heat  exchanger. So  we  assume  we  don't  have  pressure  drops across  the  heat  exchanger. So  that's  a  valid  a  valid  assumption, and  we're  also  given  T  three,  right? So  we're  basically  given  T  three  on the  first  slide  there,  which  is  1,300. And  the  point  with this  is  that  you  can  then  know the  enthalpy  at  at  State  three  here, and  you  can  also  know  the  entropy at  state  three  here,  right? For  the  purposes,  you  know, of  confirming  them  for  the  h4s. So  for  state  four,  our  P four  is  equal  to  P  one. Again,  because  in  the  bottom, it's  a  heat  exchanger. We  don't  have  a  pressure a  pressure  change  with  it. For  the  purposes  of  getting  them with  the  h4s,  right? We  would  say  that  S  four  is  equal  to  S  three. U  With  this,  and  then  out  of  it, you're  going  to  be  able  to  have H  4h4s  with  that, and  then  also  the  T  four the  T  four  out  of  it,  right? And  we  come?  Yes,  go  ahead,  Petra. Four.  Yes.  Other  comments?  Yes,  please. I  guess  for  next  time.  But  if  you  want  to talk  about  it  I'm  here I'm  happy  to  answer  it. Okay.  We're  out  of  time, but  I'll  continue  with  the  next  time. Have  a  good  weekend,  and  I'm  running  to my  office  deload  Grades.  Thank  you. Yeah,  I'm  listening  to  fatal  process.  I
