Um,  okay,  so  today, we're  going  to  continue  with  the  energy, basically  energy  transfer. We'll  do  a  couple  more  examples. Throw  one  to  you  guys  also  to  show me  if  you  know  what you're  talking  about,  all  right? Yeah, so  we'll  talk  about  the  concept  of  work, electrical  work  and  forms  of  mechanical  work. We'll  get  more  into  the  first  law. I'll  take  you  through  kind  of a  very  detailed  problem solving  approach  for  a  first  law  problem. You  know,  if  time  permits, we'll  get  a  little  bit  of  the  fluid flowing  as  energy  transfer. Okay?  So  examples  of,  like,  mechanical  work. I  mean,  this  should  be  for mechanical  engineers. Not  a  slide  I  need  to  present. Um,  All  right, like  one  of  them  is  essentially  here. I'm  applying  a  force basically  over  a  distance. So  in  this  example,  right, the  force  I'm  applying  is  when  I'm  pushing. What's  resisting  me  is essentially  inertia  and  friction. And  if  I  displace  it  an  amount  S  there, right,  it's  going  to  be  FS  is  the  work. Another  important  form  that  we'll  go  into, especially  when  it  comes  to engines  is  what's  called  shaft  work. Okay?  So  if  you  think  about, like,  everything  in  a  car,  a  turbine, pretty  much  how  we  produce  all  of our  electricity  that's  not solar  based  comes  from  this. So  just  keep  that  in  your  mind. That's  going  to  come  up  in,  like, in  Week  five,  okay? So  a  quick  example  before I  turn  it  over  to  you. So  this,  like  I  said, should  be  very  familiar. So  I  have  some  surface  here. I  have  a  spring.  Let's  say maybe  there's  a  mass  on  the  end  of  it. Um  And  when  it's  at  equilibrium, let's  say  C  85  equilibrium,  right? It's  not  moving.  It's  a  rest  position,  okay? And  if  I  want  to  displace that,  you  know,  from  that  position, I'm  going  to  have  to  apply  a  force, which  means  that  I'm  going  to,  you  know, essentially  be  transferring  transferring work  into  the  into  the  system,  all  right? Um,  So  the  way  that  we  write  this, right,  for  F  is  Hook's  law,  right? So  what  we  basically  say  from our  buddy  hook  is that  the  amount  that  we  displace, let's  call  it,  let's  say  X  is proportional  to  a  constant,  right? So  this  holds  for  things like  metals,  you  know, other  materials,  No  hook  in, and  so  on  and  so forth  for  our  purposes,  right? So  force  is  linearly  proportional to,  uh,  to  displacement. So  we  can  take that  and  put  that  up  into  there. So  we  go  with  our  D,  right? Our  dw  is  then  equal  to our  K  X,  um,  dx  there. We  can  go  on  and  we  can  integrate. Let's  say  from  zero  to  X,  right? So  let's  say  for  this, this  could  be  like  from  state one  to  state  two. So  this  is  state  one, then  state  two  is  somewhere  down  here. If  I'm  integrating  from  zero  to  X, I'll  put  like  a  till  day  over  here because  these  are the  variables  of  integration. Um  with  it. And  so  out  of  this  then, what  you'll  have  is  a  1.5  right  K, because  it's  a  constant, so  we  can  take  that  out of  our  integral,  right? So  that's  one  half  K  X  squared. And  what  we  assume  in this  process  that  we  do  it is  that  we  basically  pull  slowly, right,  what's  called  reversible,  okay? Alright,  so  we  basically  displace  this, and  not  really  quickly,  we  go,  you  know, bit  by  bit  and,  you  know, pull  and  we  apply  this, you  know,  to  this  point  to  get  to  this  force. Maybe  we  add,  like,  little  weights each  time  until  we  end  up  with that  full  force  at  that  position,  okay? Great. If  we  wanted  to  do,  right, an  energy  analysis  of  that. So  I  just  wrote  that  as  a  DW. Let's  say  we  drew  here's my  bluet  Unbelievable. Okay,  here  it  is.  All  right. So  if  we  drew,  like, a  control  volume,  right, let's  say  around  this,  okay? And  let's  say  we're  doing  that  work  transfer, like,  right  at  this  interface. What  we  can  write  is  Okay, that  the  change  in  the  energy in  that  control  volume,  right? So  the  Delta,  let's  call  it  Delta, let's  call  it  Delta  E.  We  can  call  it  CV. We  can  call  it  Delta  E  system,  right? It's  going  to  be  equal  to,  right, the  E  in  minus  the  E  out,  okay? It's  like,  Okay. Um,  making  sure  nothing's  following. Everyone's  standing  and  knock and  ye,  at  that  equation. Okay.  So,  what  are the  ways  that  we  can,  you  know, that  energy  can  change and  control  volume  like  that,  right? We're  talking  normally about,  internal  energy. We  could  talk  about  kinetic  energy, or  we  could  talk about  potential  energy,  okay? So  Delta  U,  that's  clear. We  went  through  it  before.  KE.  These  are not  two  separate  variables. This  is  the  book's  notation, Delta  meaning  change,  kinetic  E  energy. And  the  same  for  potential  on a  Delta  PE  there. All  right.  And  then  this would  be  equal  to  what? So  what  are  the  ways  we  can  transfer  energy in  will  work,  right? So  we  can  have  W  in, or  we  could  have  Q  in,  right? And  then  this  would  be  subtracted  by, write  a  W  out  plus  a  Q  out,  all  right? All  right. So,  all  right,  so  we  have  our  schematic. We  drew  a  boundary  condition,  um,  you  know, here,  I  told  you  my  problem  statement, you  know,  I  made  some  assumptions. We  did  our  physical  laws, we  apply,  you  know,  the  hook  law  to  it. We  did  the  first  law  of  thermodynamics. All  right. So  if  we  come  back  to  the  assumptions, we  could  say  here,  for  example, um,  that,  you  know, maybe  the  internal  energy  of this  system  is  not  changing,  right? So  we  could  say  things  like, you  know,  that  there.  So  that  could  be  out. And  we  could  say  here  that  if  it went  really,  really  slowly,  probably, then  our  kinetic  energy that  we  have  there  also wouldn't  change,  you  know? But  you  can  anticipate because  this  is  a  spring, that  there  would  be  a  change in  the  potential  energy  there,  right? That's  usually  what  you  do with  the  spring,  right? Um,  We  can  also say  here  that  there's  no  heat  transfer. So  if  you  looked  at  that,  probably,  again, if  you  went  very,  you  know, slowly  with  it, you  wouldn't  be  having  any  sort of  heat  transfer  associated  with  it. And  my  question  to  you  is  this? That  is,  like,  insane. That  is  not  reversible,  what  they're  doing. So  does  this  look  like  a  work in  process  or  a  workout  process? This  side  of  the  room.  Up  is  a  direction. I  want  to  know  in  or  out. Okay.  Louder.  In,  yes,  it's  a  work  in. Okay.  It's  like  a  referee. You  give  me  the  signals  there. Okay,  right?  Yeah,  so  it's  a  work  in. There  is  a  no  work  transferred  out. So  then  here  from  this  problem, what  you  would  have  right here  is  that  the  change  in the  potential  energy  of that  system  is  then  equal  to the  work  transferred  in. And  that's  exactly  what we  would  have  here  then,  right? So  this  W  in  is  there.  Okay? And  then  I  think  at  the  end  of  this, you're  supposed  to  then what  are  you  supposed  to  do? The  book  says,  give  me  some  reasoning, you  know,  I  mean,  you  did  some  work. You  stretch  something  out. Yeah,  that's  some  reasoning,  okay?  Good. Alright,  what  would  happen if  instead  of  doing  that  very  slowly, I  pulled  that  spring  very  fast? What  would  you  expect  to  happen  there? Anyone  ever  taken  a rubber  band  and,  like,  do  that? So  did  a  rubber  band, and  you  stretch  that  really,  really  quickly, as  it  get  hotter  or  colder. Hotter.  Do  you  know  why? So  in  the  rubber  band,  right, you  have  lots  of polymers  in  their  chains,  okay? And  it  turns  out  when  you  stretch  them  out, you  force  those  chains to  become  more  ordered. They  become  more  aligned  there,  okay? We'll  get  later  into  what  that  means. But  basically,  when  things  suddenly  go from  kind  of  chaotic  to  very  ordered, there's  consequences  to  it. And  one  of  the  consequences is  if  I  do  that  really  quick, the  system  will  warm  up. And  some  people  look nowadays  at  actually  using  that  to, like,  run  refrigeration  cycles. So  are  called solid  state  refrigerators  in  that. Yes,  please.  Why  did  you  take a  small  you're  going  to  learn. At  the  end  of  this  class,  you're  going to  be  able  to  answer  that  beautifully. You  go  to  your  parents  and  say,  yes,  this  is. Okay.  But  the  answer is  in  short  entropy,  okay? All  right. Any  questions  about  this?  Yes,  please. Squiggle  X. So  you  do  this  because  I  want  to integrate  to  X  as  a  limit. And  so  in  order  to  do  that  correctly, I'm  told  I'm  thinking back  years  now  into  my  calculus, but  you  put  a  squiggle for  a  variable  of  integration. So  I  can't  just  write  like  a  limit of  X  and  then  also  dx,  I  think. Yes,  please. It  one  more  time  energy  negative  form. In  this  problem?  Yeah. Yeah,  so,  you  know, it's  a  fair  statement. So  I'm  saying  it's  as  an  assumption,  okay? So  we  can  challenge  and look  at  the  assumption. In  here  and  stretching  the  spring, if  I  do  that  really  so  we  can look  at  the  outside  environment, I'm  not  changing  the  temperature of  the  outside  of  the  environment,  right? One,  two,  I'm  also  not  changing  the  pressure, right  on  the  outside  of  this  environment or  anywhere  there,  right? Okay.  So  when  we  looked  at  the  energy, when  we  talked  about  internal  energy, we  basically  said  internal  energy  basically depends  on  only  two  properties  there,  right? Let's  say  temperature  and  pressure, pressure  and  volume,  you  know, volume  and  temperature  there. So,  in  that  case,  it  wouldn't be  implausible  to  say  for  that  case, I  assume  that  these  things these  state  properties  aren't  changing. Therefore,  I  wouldn't  have an  expectation  of  a  change  in thermal  energy  there. Okay.  To  be  blunt,  though, and  to  be  clear,  right,  if, like,  the  temperature,  right? The  most  important  factor  there would  basically  be  the  temperature. If  I'm  not  changing  the temperature  of  that  system, I  probably  wouldn't  have an  expectation  of  changing the  internal  energy  base of  the  thermal  energy.  Okay? Good  question.  Other  questions? You're  on  it  for  Friday. I'm  happy.  Okay.  All  right. Cool.  So  that's  our  spring. Now  what  I  want  to  do  is  show  you  a  spring, another  kind  of  spring,  basically  a  bubble. So  here  what  you  have  while  you have  a  soap  solution  here. You  suspend  that  solution between  a  frame,  right? There's  basically  this  rigid  blue  frame  here, and  you  pull,  right? So  you  basically  pull,  right? We  basically  pull  on  that  there. And  what  you  see  is  I  stretch it  down  just  like  the  spring  before. And  like  any  other  spring, it  restores  back  to  where  it  was,  right? It's  like,  out  kindergarten, first  grade  days,  you  know, for  the  bubble  lovers,  maybe  yesterday. But  yeah,  so  essentially, you  know,  there  you  see  that right  I  play  this  force. And  then  when  I  release  it,  right, it  goes  back  to  roughly  where it  came  from,  okay? So  I  want  so  given  this, given  your  experiences  in  kindergarten, I  want  you  to  analyze  this  system,  okay? So  you  take  here  a  thin  soap  film, and  the  thickness  of  it doesn't  really  matter  too  much. Um,  The  you  may  not  be  aware  of  this, but  at  the  interface  of the  liquid  in  the  air, that  interface  is  under  tension,  okay? We  call  that  surface  tension,  right? And  that  acts  parallel to  the  liquid  interface,  right? So  here,  the  surface  tension is  pulling  on  that  kind  of  movable  wire. It's  pulling  it  back  inwards,  okay? So  at  the  surface  tension  that's  there, the  units  of  surface  tension  are newtons  per  meter,  okay? I  want  you  to  reflect  on  what  the  units of  K  were,  you  know,  over  there. That's  good.  And  you  assume that  this  is  a  reversible  process. So  I'm  not  doing  very  fast  movements,  right? Slow,  right? Slow  movements  there.  So  two  questions. What's  the  formula  for  force? For  those  that  don't  have  a  Greek  phone, you  know,  put  for  Sigma. And  what's  the  formula  then  for work  done  if  I stretch  it  over  a  distance  dx,  okay? So  I  said  10  minutes. I  think  this  group  needs  five. You  look  like  smart  today. So  go  there,  do  this.  I'll  circulate  a  bit, submit  the  answer,  and  then  we'll  discuss. All  right,  if  there's  no  other  questions, then  where  did  you read  about  surface  tension  and  Gamma? Where  did  you  read  about surface  tension  being  Gamma? Yeah.  That's  your  critical  thinking. I  like  that.  Okay.  Yeah.  All  right.  Okay. All  right.  So  coming  in,  right. So  the  mechanical  is  one  type  of  work. Another  common  one  that's  going  to  be there  that  you'll  observe is  the  electrical  work. We  looked  over  this  last  time. There  was  one  question  that  was  about, you  know,  whether  it's  work  or  it's  heat. So  in  order  for  it to  be  heat  transfer,  what  do  we  require? Sure. Temperature  grade, you  need  temperature,  right? So  in  this  problem  here, if  I  take  right  a  resistor, I  apply  a  potential  across  it. I'm  going  to  generate  a  current, and  I'm  going  to  the electrons  are  going  to  move, and  it's  going  to  heat  that  resistor,  okay? Right,  if  you  apply  enough  voltage, it'll  start  on  fire,  and  it's  kind  of  fun. So,  so  we  have  this  as  a  resistor, right?  We  have  some  voltage. Right,  that  we're  applying. So  here's  a  resistor,  here's  a  voltage, and  you're  going  to  generate a  a  current  with  that. And  let's  say  we  do  that inside  of  a  control  volume,  right? If  I  draw  the  control  volume to  look  like  this,  right? The  electrons  are  going  to  move through  that  boundary,  okay? And  then  this  resistor is  then  going  to  get  warm,  okay? But  because  it's  the  electrons crossing  the  boundary, and  then  things  get  hot  inside  of  it, that's  a  work  transfer  process. If  on  the  other  hand,  you decide  to  be  wild  and draw  a  control  volume,  like  that,  right? This  resistor  is  going  to  get  hot,  okay? And  then  it's  going  to  conduct  or transfer  heat  into  here,  right? And  then  that's  a  heat  transfer  process to  this  control  volume. So  it's  very  important  how  you  draw your  boundaries  can  sometimes  dictate the  solutions  that  you  follow,  okay? So  when  you  draw  that, you  got  to  be  consistent, then  from  there  on  after,  okay? Great. All  right,  so  we talked  about  this  right  with  the, um,  you  know, the  first  law  of  thermodynamics. So  it's  a  conservation  energy,  right? It's  not  created,  it's  not  destroyed. You're  just,  you  know,  transferring  it. And  it's  like  accounting,  right? Thermo  is  pretty  much from  the  first  law  perspective, is  nothing  but,  you  know,  accounting. And  the  way  that  I  like,  right, the  way  that  I  like  to  write  this, you  know,  because  this  is sort  of  a  simplified  form. The  way  that  I  always  like to  star  with  it  is,  right, there's  the  change  in  the  energy in  the  control  volume,  right? That's  your  bank  account.  That's  your  salary, that's  your  Safeway,  right? So  here  you  basically  have the  in  minus  the  out, you  know,  dictating  what's  remaining. Um,  for  problems  like  this,  right? The  way  that  we  have  changes  in  the  energy, the  control  volume  or  internal  energy, kinetic  energy  and  potential  energy, right,  on  the  account. And  then  the  ways  that  we  can transfer  energy  in  and  out of  such  control  volumes  is only  through  work  in  heat,  okay? So,  and  I  will,  when  I  write  solutions, always  be  writing  Wn  W  Q  in  and  Q  out. I  don't  get  into this  positive  and  negative  game. When  you  do  see  it  in  the  book,  though,  Q, without  an  in  or  an  out, you  should  assume  then  it's just  an  in,  right? Or  when  it's  positive,  it's  in, when  it's  negative,  it's  out,  and  then  W, when  it's  on  the  right  hand  side, when  it's  positive, it's  out,  and  when  it's in,  it's  negative,  okay? Cool,  right? And  so  just  to  remind  you  what  I wrote  there  and  what  we  did  last  time, again,  at  the  risk  of  being, you  know,  really  a  broken  record. With  it,  this  is  how  the  case  looks  like for  a  system  with  no  mass  transfer, what  we  call  is  a  closed  system. All  right?  Um,  All right,  so  it's  a  closed  system. How  much  time  do  I  have?  Sure. Let's  do  one  more  example on  the  ice  core  cooling, and  then  I'll  get  into  sort  of the  mass  transfer  problem,  okay? So  let  me  move  this  back  to  the  left  board. Oh,  the  right  board.  That's  great. Do,  do,  do,  do. All  right.  Cool. So  in  this  problem,  we  have  a  container. This  container  is  rigid, so  it's  a  rigid  container. And  it's  at  some  initial  state, which  is  kind  of warm  and  at  a  higher  pressure. And  we're  going  to  cool  it. What  is  wrong  with? Okay,  that's  where  I  want  it. Trouble  is  if  I  put  it  in  the  middle, there's  a  huge  reflection  I noticed  last  time. Um  All  right,  so  we're  going  to  draw  this, you  know,  rigid  container, which  is  here,  okay? There's  some  mass  there. There's  a  T  one,  and  there's  a  P  one. And  we're  also  told  that  from  this  container, so  I'll  draw  my  control  volume  like  this. There's  some  Q  out that  we  would  like  to  determine. So,  given  this,  what  we  want  to  determine. So  determine  Okay, we'd  like  to  know  what  T  two, and  we'd  like  to  know  what  Q  out  is,  okay? So,  that's  good. So  I've  drawn  my  schematic. My  problem  statement  is  up  there. What  am  I  assuming,  okay? Okay.  So  what's  in  here  is  air. Okay?  And  what  I'm  going  to  assume is  that  this  behaves  like  an  ideal  gas. One.  The  second  thing  that  I'm assuming  is  when  you  see  the  word rigid  said  about  the  container, that's  like  code  for  it doesn't  expand  and  contract. That's  code  for  your  volume,  right? Or  let's  say  V  two  big  V  two. So  the  overall  volume  is  equal  to  B  V  one. We're  going  to  assume  that the  container  is  also  impermeable,  right? Impermeable.  What  does  that  mean? It  means  no  mass  in  or  out,  okay? And  so  what  this  implies  then  is  that v2v2  divided  by  M is  equal  to  V  one  divided  by  M,  right? So  the  specific  volume  two  is  equal to  specific  volume  one, and  you're  going  to  neglect changes  in  kinetic  energy, and  you're  going  to  neglect  changes in  potential  energy,  right? Cool.  All  right. Good. So  we  can  write  our  conservation  of  energy. So  here  we  can  say,  right,  the  change in  the  E  of  our  system, is  equal  to  E  in  minus  our  E  out. All  right.  Our  E  in  then  is  what  W  in  plus  Q in  minus  W  out  plus  Q  out. All  right.  The  changes. So  one  of  the  ways  that  we  can have  changes  in  this  in  the  system? So  that's  how  we  can  transfer  it,  right? But, think  about  your  bank  account, your  thermo  account. So,  what  are  ways  that the  energy  can  change  in  a  control  volume? So  temperature,  which  is then  basically  internal  energy,  right? So  we  can  talk  about,  you  know, Delta  U  plus  Delta  E  plus  Delta  P is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  Wn  plus  Qn minus  W  plus  Q  out. From  our  assumptions  here,  right? We're  going  to  neglect  kinetic  energy. We're  going  to  neglect  changes in  potential  energy,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  equal  to our  delta  E  system. So  we  break  that  down.  Okay?  Talk  to me  about  this  formula. So  do  we  have  work  transfer  here  for an  isochoric  process?  No,  okay? So  we  have  no  W  in  there  and  no  W  out. What  about  Q  in? No,  right?  So  we  just  have  that. So  at  the  end  of  it,  so our  E  in  minus  our  E  out  is  nothing  but, um,  Q  out,  right? And  the  change  in  the  energy  of  the  system is  only  going  to  be  changes in  internal  energy,  right? So  basically,  Delta  U  is  going to  be  equal  to  Q  out. All  right?  Yes,  please. Negative. You're  on  it,  man.  I  like  that.  Okay. Right.  Right? This  is  a  process  we're  moving  from the  plot  that  we  see,  we're  moving  1-2. So  estily  this  change  in internal  energy  is  U  two  minus U  one  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  our  Q  out. All  right. Cool.  Yeah,  so  everything  until  now, should  make  sense.  All  right? For  an  ideal  gas, what  I'm  going  to  tell  you  right  now, I'm  going  to  tell  you  something. I'll  back  it  up  with  an  example, and  then  we'll  see what  time  as  we  go,  all  right? Changes  in  the  internal  energy of  an  ideal  gas  only  depend  on  temperature, okay?  Not  pressure,  okay? It's  only  temperature,  all  right? I'll  back  this  up.  You  did these  simulations  of  an  ideal  gas with  these  particles  moving  around. Translational  kinetic  energy,  okay? So  it's  only  one  half  mv squared  for  each  particle,  right? Okay.  Um,  This  is  good. What  I'm  going  to  tell  you  is  that,  like, temperature  is  equal  to that  energy  times  a  constant. A  constant  is  called Boltzmann's  constant  K,  right? So  t  is  basically  equal to  transition  kinetic  energy,  right? Fine.  Bear  with  me. You'll  see  with  time,  okay? But  the  point  is  that  this  is kind  of  like  lame  to stop  here  at  U.  I want  to  go  a  little  bit  further,  right? So  some  facts. D  is  equal  to  the  mass  of the  substance  involved  for an  ideal  gas  times  a  constant. I'm  just  going  to  call  it  C  and  give it  a  little  V.  We'll  deal  with  that  later. N  times  dt,  all  right? The  units  of  CV  here  have  the  units  of kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  kelvin. This  is  basically  a  measure  of  if  I put  some  amount  of  heat  into  a  substance, how  much  does  this  temperature  change? It's  very  important,  and  we're  going to  we're  going  to  use  it  a  lot. So  this  applies  for  ideal  gas. Alright.  Alright,  so  if we  take  this  and  we  put  it  to  here, what  I  can  write  is  that M  times  this  constant  times T  two  minus  T  one is  going  to  be  equal  to negative  Q  out,  all  right? And  so  now,  with  that,  right, if  we  knew  the  mass,  which  we're  told, if  we  knew  the  constant, which  I  could  give  you,  okay? And  if  we  knew  the  difference  of T  minus  T  one, we'd  have  to  the  Q  out,  right? So  pretty  much  until  this  point, we've  got  our  governing  equations  good. We've  got  how  we're going  to  get  the  solution, and  all  we  need  to  do  now is  compute  properties,  right? That's  the  next  stage in  our  problem  solution. All  right. So  how  are  we  going to  compute  the  properties? How  do  we  compute  properties  of  an  ideal  gas? Okay,  I'll  give  you  that  one. So  ideal  gas  equation,  right? Idel  gas  equation,  all  right? So  P  vp1v1  is  equal  to,  which  means  the  same. R  of  air  times  times  T  one. We  can  put  M  to  the  other  side. So  we'll  have  P  one. Little  V  one  is  equal  to  R  air  times  T  one. This  is  not  like  joules  per  mol  Kelvin. You  can  have  these,  which  are  joules  per kilogram  per kelvin  for,  like,  all  substances. Alright?  You  can  look  it  up  in  your  textbook. Um  Okay,  we  know  P  one, we  know  T  one, we  know  R.  We  don't  know  V  one,  right? So  the  first  step  is  basically  V  one  is  R A  T  one  divided  by  P  one,  right? Cool.  That's  everything  for  state  one. We  have  T  one,  we  have  P  one,  we  have  V  one. Caput,  all  right? Now  we  come  to  state  two. State  two.  What  do  we  know  about  state  two? What  information  is  given? Pressure,  P  two,  okay? So  I  can  go  p2v2  is  equal  to  R  T  two, we'd  like  to  find  T  two, so  T  two  is  equal  to p2v2  divided by  R.  So  what  don't  we  know  here? R  air,  sorry.  R  air,  R  air. What  don't  we  know  on  the  right  hand  side? V  two,  similar  or  identical,  right? So  we  know  from  from  over  here,  right? This  is  little  V  two is  equal  to  little  V  one,  right? Big  V  two  is  equal  to  V  V  one. The  mass  doesn't  change. Little  V  two  is  that. And  so  what  you'd  have  here  is  then V  two,  V  one, which  we  just  learned  here, divided  by  our  air,  okay? With  that,  you  have  T  two. With  then  the  T  two, you  can  plug  it  into  here. It's  the  negative  of  the  Q  out, but  we  can  rewrite  this  and  say the  Q  is  equal  to  the  mass  of the  air  in  the  control  volume times  the  constant  times  T  one, which  is  the  hotter  temperature minus  T  two,  okay? And  that's  a  key  part  of  it. Because  I've  written  this  as  Q  out, this  should  just  be  a  positive  number,  right? So  if  I  did  everything  right  and  I'm doing  a  cooling  process,  right, I'd  expect  T  two  to  be lower  than  to  T  one  there,  okay? At  least  today,  we  got  to compute  a  temperature  in  a  heat,  right? Next  time,  you  know, we'll  get  a  bit  further,  right? And  then  if  you  click  on  this  link, you  can  go  through  some  of those  numbers  and  see, and  that's  what  this  process  looks  like, right? And  this  is  a  straight  line  up  and  down, one  to  two  on  a  constant  volume,  okay? With  that,  I'm  going  to  close. I  hope  you  all  have  a  great  weekend. I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions.
