I  got  210.  Whoa,  that  is  loud. Better?  No,  that's  still  very  loud. Okay,  that's  better.  I'm  moderate  enough. Okay,  so  today,  we're  going  to  continue with  the  energy,  basically  energy  transfer. We'll  do  a  couple  more  examples. Throw  one  to  you  guys  also  to  show me  if  you  know  what you're  talking  about,  right? Yeah, so  we'll  talk  about  the  concept  of  work, electrical  work  and  forms  of  mechanical  work. We'll  get  more  into  the  first  law. I'll  take  you  through  kind  of a  very  detailed  problem solving  approach  for  a  first  law  problem. You  know  if  time  permits, we'll  get  a  little  bit  of  the  fluid flowing  as  energy  transfer.  Okay? So  examples  of,  like,  mechanical  work. I  mean,  this  should  be  for mechanical  engineers. Not  a  slide  I  need  to  present. Um,  All  right? Like  one  of  them  is  essentially  here. I'm  applying  a  force basically  over  a  distance. So  in  this  example,  right, the  force  I'm  applying  is  when  I'm  pushing. What's  resisting  me  is essentially  inertia  and  friction. And  if  I  displace  it  in  an  amount  S  there, right,  it's  going  to  be  FS  is  the  work. Another  important  form  that  we'll  go  into, especially  when  it  comes  to engines  is  what's  called  shaft  work. Okay?  So  if  you  think  about, like,  everything  in  a  car,  a  turbine, pretty  much  how  we  produce  all  of our  electricity  that's  not solar  based  comes  from  this. So  just  keep  that  in  your  mind. That's  going  to  come  up  in  Week  five,  okay? So  a  quick  example  before I  turn  it  over  to  you. So  this,  like  I  said, it  should  be  very  familiar. So  I  have  some  surface  here.  I  have  a  spring. Let's  say  maybe  there's a  mass  on  the  end  of  it. Um,  and  when  it's  at  equilibrium, let's  say  C  85  equilibrium,  right? It's  not  moving.  It's  a  rest  position,  okay? And  if  I  want  to  displace that,  you  know,  from  that  position, I'm  going  to  have  to  apply a  force,  which  means  that  I'm  going  to, you  know,  essentially  be  transferring transferring  work  into  the into  the  system,  all  right? Um,  So  the  way  that  we  write  this, right,  for  F  is  Hook's  law,  right? So  we  basically  say  from our  buddy  hook  is that  the  amount  that  we  displace, let's  call  it,  let's  say  X  is proportional  to  a  constant,  right? So  this  holds  for  things like  metals,  you  know, other  materials,  No  hookan and  so  on  and  so forth  for  our  purposes,  right? So  force  is  linearly proportional  to  to  displacement. So  we  can  take that  and  put  that  up  into  there. So  we  go  with  our  D,  right? Our  dw  is  then  equal  to  our  K  X  dx  there. We  can  go  in  and  we  can  integrate. Let's  say  from  zero  to  X,  right? So  let's  say  for  this, this  could  be  like  from  state one  to  state  two. So  this  is  state  one, then  state  two  is  somewhere  down  here. If  I'm  integrating  from zero  to  X,  I'll  put,  like, a  till  day  over  here because  these  are  the  variables of  integration  with  it. And  so  out  of  this  then, what  you'll  have  is  a  1.5,  right. Because  this  is  a  constant, so  we  can  take  that  out of  our  integral,  right? So  that's  one  half  X  squared. And  what  we  assume  in this  process  that  we  do  it is  that  we  basically  pull  slowly, right,  what's  called  reversible,  okay? Alright,  so  we  basically  displace  this, and  not  really  quickly,  we  go,  you  know, bit  by  bit  and,  you  know, pull  and  we  apply  this, you  know,  to  this  point  to  get  to  this  force. Maybe  we  add,  like,  little  weights each  time  until  we  end  up  with that  full  force  at  that  position,  okay? Great.  If  we  wanted  to  do, right,  an  energy  analysis  of  that. So  I  just  wrote  that  as  a  DW. Let's  say  we  drew  here's my  bluet  Unbelievable. Okay,  here  it  is. All  right.  So  if  we  drew,  like, a  control  volume,  right, let's  say  around  this,  okay? And  let's  say  we're  doing  that  work  transfer, like,  right  at  this  interface. What  we  can  write  is  Okay. But  the  change  in  the  energy in  that  control  volume,  right? So  the  Delta,  let's  call  it  Delta, let's  call  it  Delta  E.  We  call  it  CV. We  can  call  it  Delta  E  system,  right? It's  going  to  be  equal  to,  right, the  E  in  minus  the  E  out,  okay? I  was  like,  Okay. Um,  make  sure  nothing's  following. Everyone's  standing,  and  then knocking  y,  at  that  equation. Okay.  So,  what  are the  ways  that  we  can,  you  know, that  energy  can  change and  it  control  volume  like  that,  right? We're  talking  normally  about, right,  internal  energy. We  could  talk  about  kinetic  energy, or  we  could  talk about  potential  energy,  okay? Um,  so  Delta  U,  that's  clear. We  went  through  it  before. KEE.  These  are  not  two  separate  variables. This  is  the  book's  notation. Delta  meaning  change,  kinetic  E  energy. And  the  same  for  potential  and Delta  PE  there.  All  right. And  then  this  would  be  equal  to  what? So  what  are  the  ways  we  can  transfer  energy in  will  work,  right? So  we  can  have  W  in, or  we  could  have  Q  in,  right? And  then  this  would  be  subtracted  by, write  a  W  out  plus  a  Q  out,  all  right? All  right.  So,  all right,  so  we  have  our  schematic. We  draw  a  boundary  condition,  you  know, here,  I  told  you  my  problem  statement, you  know,  made  some  assumptions. We  did  our  physical  laws,  right, we  apply,  you  know, the  hook  law  to  it. We  did  the  first  law  of  thermodynamics. All  right. So  if  we  come  back  to  the  assumptions, we  could  say  here,  for  example, um,  that,  you  know, maybe  the  internal  energy  of this  system  is  not  changing,  right? So  we  could  say  things  like, you  know,  that  there.  So  that  could  be  out. And  we  could  say  here  that  if we  went  really,  really  slowly,  probably, then  our  kinetic  energy  that  we  have  there also  wouldn't  change,  you  know? But  you  can  anticipate because  this  is  a  spring, that  there  would  be  a  change in  the  potential  energy  there,  right? That's  usually  what  you do  with  the  spring,  right? Um,  We  can  also say  here  that  there's  no  heat  transfer. So  if  you  looked  at  that,  probably, again,  if  you  went  very,  you  know, slowly  with  it, you  wouldn't  be  having  any  sort of  heat  transfer  associated  with  it. And  my  question  to  you  is  this? That  is,  like,  insane. That  is  not  reversible  what  they're  doing. So  does  this  look  like  a  work  in  process  or a  workout  process?  This  side  of  the  room. Up  is  a  direction.  I  want  to  know  in  or  out. Okay.  Louder. In.  Yes,  it's  a  work  in. Okay.  It's  like  a  referee. You  give  me  the  signals  there.  Okay,  right? Yeah,  so  it's  a  work  in.  There  is a  no  work  transferred  out. So  then  here  from  this  problem, what  you  would  have  right here  is  that  the  change  in the  potential  energy  of that  system  is  then  equal  to the  work  transferred  in. And  that's  exactly  what we  would  have  here  then,  right? So  this  W  in  is  there. Okay?  And  then  I  think  at  the  end  of  this, you're  supposed  to  then what  are  you  supposed  to  do? The  book  says,  give  me  some  reasoning. You  know,  I  mean,  you  did  some  work. You  stretch  something  out. Yeah,  that's  some  reasoning,  okay? Good.  Alright,  what  would happen  if  instead  of  doing  that  very  slowly, I  pulled  that  spring  very  fast? What  would  you  expect  to  happen  there? Anyone  ever  taken  a rubber  band  and,  like,  do  that? So  take  a  rubber  band, and  you  stretch  that  really,  really quickly  as  it  get  hotter  or  colder. Hotter.  Do  you  know  why? So  in  the  rubber  band,  right, you  have  lots  of polymers  in  their  chains,  okay? And  it  turns  out  when  you  stretch  them  out, you  force  those  chains to  become  more  ordered. They  become  more  aligned  there,  okay? We'll  get  later  into  what  that  means. But  basically,  when  things  suddenly go  from  kind  of  chaotic  to  very  ordered, there's  consequences  to  it. And  one  of  the  consequences is  if  I  do  that  really  quick, the  system  will  warm  up. And  some  people  look nowadays  at  actually  using  that  to, like,  run  refrigeration  cycles. So  are  called solid  state  refrigerators  in  that. Yes,  please.  Why  are its  small  You're  going  to  learn. At  the  end  of  this  class,  you're  going to  be  able  to  answer  that  beautifully. You  go  to  your  parents  and  say, yes,  this  is  why. Okay.  But  the  answer  is  in  short  entropy. Okay?  All  right. Any  questions  about  this?  Yes,  please. Squiggle  X. So  you  do  this  because  I  want  to integrate  to  X  as  a  limit. And  so  in  order  to  do  that  correctly, I'm  told  I'm  thinking back  years  now  into  my  calculus, but  you  put  a  squiggle for  a  variable  of  integration. So  I  can't  just  write  like  a  limit  of X  and  then  also  dx,  I  think.  Yes,  please. Can  you  it  one  more  time  energy. In  this  problem?  Yeah.  Yeah,  so, you  know,  it's  a  fair  statement. So  I'm  saying  it's  as  an  assumption,  okay? So  we  can  challenge  and look  at  the  assumption. In  here  and  stretching  the  spring, if  I  do  that  really  so  we  can look  at  the  outside  environment. I'm  not  changing  the  temperature of  the  outside  of  the  environment,  right? One,  two,  I'm  also  not  changing  the  pressure, right,  on  the  outside  of  this  environment or  anywhere  there,  right? Okay.  So  when  we  looked  at  the  energy, when  we  talked  about  internal  energy, we  basically  said  internal  energy  basically depends  on  only  two  properties  there,  right? Let's  say  temperature  and  pressure, pressure  and  volume,  you  know, volume  and  temperature  there. So  in  that  case,  it  wouldn't be  implausible  to  say  for  that  case, I  assume  that  these  things these  state  properties  aren't  changing. Therefore,  I  wouldn't  have an  expectation  of  a  change in  thermal  energy  there. Okay?  To  be  blunt,  though, and  to  be  clear,  right,  if, like,  the  temperature,  right? The  most  important  factor  there would  basically  be  the  temperature. If  I'm  not  changing  the temperature  of  that  system, I  probably  wouldn't  have an  expectation  of  changing the  internal  energy  base of  the  thermal  energy. Okay?  Good  question.  Other  questions? You're  on  it  for  Friday.  I'm  happy. Okay.  All  right.  Cool.  So  that's  our  spring. Now  what  I  want  to  do  is  show  you  a  spring, another  kind  of  spring. E  a  bubble. So  here's  what  you  have  well you  have  a  soap  solution  here. You  suspend  that  solution between  a  frame,  right? There's  basically  this  rigid  blue  frame  here, and  you  pull,  right? So  you  basically  pull,  Right? We  basically  pull  on  that  there. And  what  you  see  is  I  stretch  it  down, just  like  the  spring  before. And  like  any  other  spring, it  restores  back  to  where  it  was,  right? It's  like,  kindergarten,  first  grade  days, you  know, for  the  bubble  lovers,  maybe  yesterday. But  yeah,  so  essentially, you  know,  there  you  see right  I  play  this  force. And  then  when  I  release  it,  right, it  goes  back  to  roughly  where it  came  from,  okay? So  I  want  given  this, given  your  experiences  in  kindergarten, I  want  you  to  analyze  this  system,  okay? So  you  take  here  a  thin  soap  film, the  thickness  of  it  doesn't really  matter  too  much. You  may  not  be  aware  of  this, but  at  the  interface  of the  liquid  in  the  air, that  interface  is  under  tension,  okay? We  call  that  surface  tension,  right? And  that  acts  parallel to  the  liquid  interface,  right? So  here,  the  surface  tension is  pulling  on  that  kind  of  movable  wire. It's  pulling  it  back  inwards,  okay? So  at  the  surface  tension  that's  there, the  units  of  surface  tension  are newtons  per  meter,  okay? I  want  you  to  reflect  on  what  the  units of  K  were,  you  know,  over  there. That's  good.  And  you  assume that  this  is  a  reversible  process. So  I'm  not  doing  very  fast  movements,  right? Slow,  right?  Slow  movements  there. So  two  questions. What's  the  formula  for  force? For  those  that  don't  have  a  Greek  phone, you  know,  put  for  Sigma. And  what's  the  formula  then  for work  done  if  I stretch  it  over  a  distance  dx,  okay? So  I  said  10  minutes. I  think  this  group  needs  five. You  look  like  smart  today. So  go  there,  do  this. I'll  circulate  a  bit,  submit  the  answer, and  then  we'll  discuss. Is  it  working?  Cool.  I  like  that. Yeah. Uh  huh. How  are  we  doing  up  here? Good.  Yeah.  That's  okay.  One  in  doubt  right. What's  it  say,  sorry.  My  equals. What's  the  first  one?  I  see  Sigma,  yes. Yeah,  S  Uh  huh. Yeah.  So  if  we  check  the  units, the  units  are.  Yeah.  Okay. So  my  reply  to  that  would  be  if I  made  so  in  the  case  of the  how  do  I  want  to  say  this? I  want  to  get  it  right So what  other  dimensions  could  you  use  to  form force  besides  X  in  your  problem  there? So  you  stay  with  Sigma. What's  another  way  you  can  form force?  You  need  a  meter. Yeah.  So,  what  else  in that  problem  gives  you  the  unit  of  a  meter? To  think.  What  are  we  doing  here? Awesome.  Good.  Cool.  The  back  of  the  room? Rocking  and  rolling.  Ready  for  the  weekend? All  right. Any  questions  about  the  problem  or  no? You  think  I'd  ask  a  Berkeley  students something  that  easy  or what?  What's  your  thinking? Since  two  sides  to  it. Yep. Yes.  Yes.  Uh  huh. Mm  hmm.  So  my  question to  you  would  be  this  if  you  looked  at,  like, and  I  don't  know  the  last  time you  played  with  a  bubble,  but, like,  how  do  I  want  to  get  this  right? So  if  I  made the  thickness  of  the  wire  thicker, would  you  expect  a  change  in  the  force? Now,  if  I  made  the  frame  wider. So  if  I  made  B  larger, would  you  expect  an  increase in  the  force  or  no? I'll  start.  This  one  in  the  future. Yeah.  But  I  like  this  so  that  together. This  is  a  good  team. But  in  this  order,  so  this  to  this,  to  this. And  you  supervise  it What  happened  to  them  all,  man. You  guys  had  a  whole  crew here.  How  are  we  doing  back  here? Yeah?  Okay.  I  like  the  hat,  man. I  used  to  work  for  them.  All  right. Cool. So  what  was your  thinking  through  the  problem? If  you  don't  mind  me  asking? I  was  mostly.  Yeah. Yeah. That's  a  fair  point. Sure.  Let's  say  it  deeply. Yeah.  The  question  is  how  to  think  that. Yes.  So  how  would  you  turn  that  into  force? If  you  do  it  alone  you  team  up,  what  you. Okay.  If  you  haven't  submitted  an  answer, let's  do  it  so  we  can  get  to  discussing. To  do,  to  do. I  Okay,  I  will  try  to  keep  up  with  this. I  have  so  we  have  a  force  two  X. All  right, two F  F  two, Oh,  I  didn't  mean  to  make  this  a  voting  one. Oh,  no.  Okay.  Let's  from  the  beginning. S two BX  Sigma The  Sigma  we  already  had  Sigma.  Okay. So  let's  go  around  the  room. I  think  I  tried  to  capture  most  of  them. What  did  you  guys  have  for  an  answer  here? That's  BS. Okay.  How  about  here? Two. Did  I  write  that  yet? TS,  let's  say  two  X  here. Okay.  How  about  a  group  in  the  back  there? BSX.  Okay. Great.  All  right.  So  starting  here, why  did  we  go  with  this  one? We  didn't  catch  that  there  was  two. So  then  you  to  this  then  to  two  Bs. Okay.  And  what  was  the  thinking. Two. Yeah.  So  two  interfaces. Okay.  To  the  picture. That's  the  second  part  though. I'm  going  to  hold  you  off  on  that. Thank  you,  though.  I  love  jumping  into  it. My  two  BSX  here. We  have  two  interfaces. We  have  a  frame  of  a  width  B,  and  we  have. Why  do  we  add  X  for  the  force. Remember,  we're  talking  about  force here.  Yes. Very  important  to  check  units. You're  an  engineer. The  number  one  thing  you  should do  is  check  units. Actually,  the  secret  is most  of  the  time  you don't  even  need  a  formula. You  take  what  you  have  and you  form  the  unit  you  want, and  you're  probably  pretty close  to  being  right. Okay?  Rail,  he  was a  great  mathematician  and  physicist, and  he  pretty  much  said  that. So  you  don't  have  to  take  it  from  me. Take  it  from  Railey,  okay? Okay, but  which  length  would  you  get  rid  of  then? So  we  have  B  and  we  have  X. Which  one  goes?  One  has to  die.  Which  one  dies? B.  Final  answer.  Okay. Okay,  let's  walk  through  that  now. So  if  we  come  back  to  our  frame. So  if  we  come  back  to  our  frame, this  is  a  top  view. So  this  is  our  width  B,  okay? We're  applying  the  force  here, and  we're  pulling  it  then  to some  distance,  okay?  All  right. So  what  you're  saying  with this  is  that  the  force, the  more  that  I  pull  on  this. So  if  this  is  then,  you  know, let's  say,  like  a  distance  X, the  more  that  I  pull  on  this, the  bigger  my  force  will  be,  all  right? And  what  is  that  analogous  to? Spring  Spring. Okay?  All  right. So  if  you  think  about  this  like  a  spring, you  would  have  got  that  right,  okay? Except  that  fluids  aren't  just  one  spring. If  you  were  to  go  to this  interface  and  you  were  to  look  here, well,  that's  a  bad  drawing. Okay.  So  if  you  were  to  go  to this  interface  here  and  look,  okay? Right?  Let's  say  this  is the  solid  part  of the  frame  that  you're  pulling, and  you  look  at  it  like  molecules,  right? Because  they're  molecules  at the  end  of  the  day. These  are  all  like  many  little  springs, okay,  that  are  attached  there,  right? All  in  parallel,  right? Okay.  So  if  I  took, you  know,  one  spring,  right, and  I  put  it  in  there, and  I  put  another  spring  next to  it  in  parallel, would  you  expect  for  the  same  displacement, the  force  to  go  up  or  down? Up,  right? It  would  go  up.  So  it's  B. Basically,  increasing  B,  right? It  means  that  you'll  have  to  pull harder  to  stretch  it. That's  the  first  thing,  okay? And  that's  straightforward. The  second  part  about  why the  surface  tension  Sigma doesn't  depend  on  how  much  you  pull. It's  kind  of  complicated,  right? But  I'll  try  to  paint  a  picture  for  you. If  we  look  at  the  same  interface, maybe  I'll  go  to  the  side  view  case  now. So  let's  say  this  is  my right,  the  rod,  right? Let's  say  this  is  the  liquid. Right?  I'm  pulling  in  this  direction. As  I  stretch  this  a  little  further, let's  say  I  started  here, and  then  I  stretch,  right? The  point  is  that  as the  interface  gets  larger  in  area, there's  a  whole  army  of molecules  back  here  that can  come  in  and  fill  in  the  interface,  right? So  as  I  stretch, more  liquid  can  come  from  the  bulk  to the  surface  to  keep that  connection  going,  okay? In  a  solid,  that  doesn't  happen. If  I  take  a  solid  and  I  stretch  it,  right? The  atoms  are  in  a  lattice. They're  going  nowhere,  right? So,  it  makes  sense  there,  in  that  case, that  as  I  pull  on  something  that's like  a  solid,  right? You,  you  won't  have  that  case  of the  atoms  being  able  to, like,  fill  in  like  that. So  you  really  have  to  stretch  them  far  apart, and  it  gets  very  hard,  very, very  quickly,  okay? Yes.  So  that's  why  in  the  case, so  it  looks  like  a  spring,  and  that's  why I  want  it  because  I  wanted  to  have  some  fun. This  is  fun  to  trick  people. And  that's  a  joke. Anyway,  so  you  go  like  this. So  the  point  is  it's  to  help  you check  your  intuition  and  your  reasoning. So  in  this  case,  as  I  increase B,  the  force  will  go  up. But  as  long  as  I  have  a  sufficient  amount  of liquid  in  the  film  as  I  pull  on  it, actually  this  force  shouldn't  change,  okay? What's  also  nice  is  capturing the  fact  that  there's  two  interfaces  with  it. So  the  answer  to  this,  right is  basically  F  is  equal  to two  times  Sigma  times the  frame  length  either,  okay?  Yes,  please. Surface  tension. Surface  tension  is  a  property  of  your  fluid. It's  basically  a  property  of  the  interface. It's  beyond  the  scope  of  this  class, but  it  is  a  thermodynamic  property, like  pressure,  like  temperature. So  it's  really  a  property of  your  interface  there. It  doesn't  depend  on  the  size  of  the  system. It's  an  intensive  property. So  And  you  can change  it.  You  can  add  soap  to  it. You  go  home  and,  you  know,  clean  some  dishes, and  you  put  soap  in  it, you'll  change  the  surface  tension. That's  why  it's  easy  to  make bubbles  when  you  add  sop, because  it's  easier  to  make bubbles  when the  surface  tension  is  lower,  okay? And  the  same  with  pasta.  You  get a  lot  of  stuff  in  the  water.  It  foams  over. Makes  a  huge  mess  in  my  kitchen. It's  the  same  thing. The  foam  and  stuff  the  stuff in  the  pasta  reduces  the  surface  tension, and  it's  easier  to  bubble,  okay? How  about  the  work  now? Oh,  I  guess  I  should  have  van.  Sorry.  Okay. So  if  we  come  to  the  work. To  my  time.  All  right. I  think  this  is  here.  Okay,  so  work, we  have  two  SBx Let's  start  from  the  beginning. DW  two  SDx. Okay.  Maybe  in  the  middle  here, Cal,  California. What  did  you  guys  have  for  work? I'm  almost  there,  too. Let's  walk  it  through  another  way. So  what's  your  formula  for  DW? What  would  that  be  equal  to not  knowing  anything  about  this  system? How  would  we  write  this  FDX,  right? All  right.  Okay.  And  from what  we  just  had  before,  what's  the  F? It's  going  to  be  two  B  Sigma  dx is  equal  to  our  dw  there. And  so  if  we  integrate  that, so  does  B  depend  on  X  or  no? Does  Sigma  depend  on  X  or  no, based  on  what  I  just  told  him? Two?  No.  So  what  do  we  have  here? So  this  is  state  one  to  two, this  is  zero,  let's  say  to  X. We  have  our  till  day. So  this  is  going  to  be  what? So  to  be  Sigma  times  X,  right?  That's  it. So  there's  your  answer,  right? So  your  W  then  is  this,  all  right? All  right,  that  makes  sense,  right, because  this  is  newtons per  meter,  times  the  length  here, is  just  Netons  and  Newtons times  the  length  is  then joules  or  work,  all  right?  Good. Yes,  please.  Really  quick. Why  are  we  writing  instead  of  Gamma? That  is  a  great  question.  So  Sigma  is what  fluid  mechanics  fluid  mechanics  write, and  Gamma  is  what  thermodynamicist  write. So  in  the  book, I  think  uses  Sigma, which  doesn't  really  I  don't  know. It  gets  worse.  If  you  read  old  books, they  wrote  it  as  T  pretension. So  yeah,  this  is the  lovely  joy  of  the  more  you  learn, the  different  disciplines  have  like variables,  and  then  they  overlap. And  then,  yeah,  this  is  it. And  in  this  class,  it's  even  worse  than  that. So  the  reason  why  we  don't  use  Gamma in  this  class  is  because  you're  going  to use  this  later  when  we  talk about  an  adiabatic  index. So  we're  going  to  talk  about  a  ratio of  some  constants, and  we're  going  to  use  Gamma  a  lot  for  that. So  I  probably  made  the  choice  in this  class  not  to  use  Gamma, even  though  I  do  throw dynamics  for  that  reason,  okay? That's  a  fair  question. All  right.  Other  questions? Yeah.  So  if  it's,  okay, I'm  going  to  switch  out  out  of  this  screen. All  right.  So  the  reason why  it's  two  is  because  there's two  interfaces,  right? So  remember,  I  was  talking about  springs  being  in  series. So  if  I  look  at  this  film  here, I  have  a  top  surface  and a  bottom  surface,  right? And  so  to  go  to  the  spring  example, that'd  be  like  having  a  spring  on  the  top  and the  spring  in  the  bottom that  I  pull  with,  right? So,  it's  like  it's,  you  know, it's  like,  you  know,  if  I  took  this and  I  cut  it,  that's  you'd  see. You'd  see  this  interface, and  you'd  see  another  interface. And  whenever  you  have  a  liquid  air interface,  it's  under  tension. Sure.  Yeah,  but  it's parallel  to  that  interface. So  if  you  went  in  and  cut  it  and  looked, what  you  would  see  here is  that  there's  a  force acting  parallel  to  that  interface,  right? And  because  we  have a  second  one  on  the  other  side, because  it's  a  soap  film  or a  film,  there's  air  on  both  sides. You  have  two  interfaces, therefore,  two  points  where attention  is  being  pulled  by  the  liquid. Sorry.  Yes.  Okay.  Other  questions? No,  shoot. That's  not  right.  There  we  go. Okay.  All  right. If  there's  no  other  questions, then  where  did  you read  about  surface  tension  and  Gamma? Where  did  you  read  about surface  tension  being  Gamma? Yeah.  So  I  just  That's  a  critical  thinking. I  like  that.  Okay.  Yeah.  All  right. Okay. All  right. So  coming  in,  right?  So  the mechanical  is  one  type  of  work. Another  common  one  that's  going  to  be there  that  you'll  observe is  the  electrical  work. We  looked  over  this  last  time. There  was  one  question  that  was  about, you  know,  whether  it's  work  or  it's  heat. So  in  order  for  it to  be  heat  transfer,  what  do  we  require? Sure. Temperature  grade, temperature  difference,  right? So  in  this  problem  here, if  I  take  right  a  resistor, I  apply  a  potential  across  it. I'm  going  to  generate  current, and  I'm  going  to  the electrons  are  going  to  move, and  it's  going  to  heat  that  resistor,  okay? Right,  if  you  apply  enough  voltage, it'll  start  on  fire,  and  it's  kind  of  fun. So,  so  we  have  this  as  a  resistor,  right? We  have  some  voltage. Right,  that  we're  applying. So  here's  a  resistor,  here's  a  voltage, and  you're  going  to  generate a  a  current  with  that. And  let's  say  we  do  that inside  of  a  control  volume,  right? If  I  draw  the  control  volume to  look  like  this,  right? The  electrons  are  going  to  move through  that  boundary,  okay? And  then  this  resistor is  then  going  to  get  warm,  okay? But  because  it's  the  electrons crossing  the  boundary, and  then  things  get  hot  inside  of  it, that's  a  work  transfer  process. If  on  the  other  hand,  you decide  to  be  wild  and draw  a  control  volume,  like  that,  right? This  resistor  is  going  to  get  hot,  okay? And  then  it's  going  to  conduct  or transfer  heat  into  here,  right? And  then  that's  a  heat  transfer  process to  this  control  volume. So  it's  very  important  how  you  draw your  boundaries  can  sometimes dictate  the  solutions  that  you  follow,  okay? So  when  you  draw  that, you  got  to  be  consistent, then  from  there  on  after,  okay?  Great. All  right. And  so  we  talked  about  this  right  with  the, um,  you  know, the  first  law  of  thermodynamics. So  it's  a  conservation  energy,  right? It's  not  created,  it's  not  destroyed. You're  just,  you  know,  transferring  it. And  it's  like  accounting,  right? Thermo  is  pretty  much from  the  first  law  perspective, is  nothing  but,  you  know,  accounting. And  the  way  that  I  like,  right, the  way  that  I  like  to  write  this, you  know,  because  this  is sort  of  a  simplified  form. The  way  that  I  always  like to  star  with  it  is,  right, there's  the  change  in the  energy  in  the  control  volume, right?  That's  your  bank  account. That's  your  salary, that's  your  Safeway,  right? So  here  you  basically  have the  in  minus  the  out, you  know,  dictating  what's  remaining. Um,  for  problems  like  this,  right? The  way  that  we  have  changes  in  the  energy, the  control  volume  or  internal  energy, kinetic  energy,  and  potential  energy, right,  on  the  account. And  then  the  ways  that  we  can transfer  energy  in  and  out of  such  control  volumes  is only  through  working  in  heat,  okay? So,  and  I  will,  when  I  write  solutions, always  be  writing  Wn,  W  Q  in  and  Q  out. I  don't  get  into this  positive  and  negative  game. When  you  do  see  it  in  the  book,  though,  Q, without  an  in  or  an  out, you  should  assume  then  it's just  an  in,  right? Or  when  it's  positive, it's  in,  when  it's  negative, it's  out,  and  then  W, when  it's  on  the  right  hand  side, when  it's  positive,  it's  out, and  when  it's  in,  it's negative,  okay?  Cool,  right? And  so  just  to  remind  you  what  I wrote  there  and  what  we  did  last  time, again,  at  the  risk  of  being, you  know,  really  a  broken  record. With  it,  this  is  how  the  case  looks  like for  a  system  with  no  mass  transfer, what  we  call  is  a  closed  system.  All  right? All  right,  so  it's  a  closed  system. How  much  time  do  I  have? Sure.  Let's  do  one  more  example on  the  ice  core  cooling, and  then  I'll  get  into  sort  of the  mass  transfer  problem,  okay? So  let  me  move  this  back  to  the  left  board. Oh,  the  right  board.  That's  great. Do  do  do  do  do.  All  right. Cool.  So  in this  problem,  we  have  a  container. This  container  is  rigid, so  it's  a  rigid  container, and  it's  at  some  initial  state, which  is  kind  of warm  and  at  a  higher  pressure. And  we're  going  to  cool  it. What  is  wrong  with? Okay,  that's  where  I  want  it. Trouble,  if  I  put  it  in  the  middle, there's  a  huge  reflection  I noticed  last  time. Um  All  right,  so  we're  going  to  draw  this, you  know,  rigid  container, which  is  here,  okay? There's  some  mass  there. There's  a  T  one,  and  there's  a  P  one. And  we're  also  told  that  from  this  container, so  I'll  draw  my  control  volume  like  this. There's  some  Q  out that  we  would  like  to  determine. So,  given  this,  what  we  want  to  determine. So  determine  Okay, we'd  like  to  know  what  T  two, and  we'd  like  to  know  what  Q  out  is,  okay? So,  that's  good.  So  I've  drawn  my  schematic. My  problem  statement  is  up  there. What  am  I  assuming,  okay? Okay.  So  what's  in  here  is  air. Okay?  And  what  I'm  going  to  assume is  that  this  behaves  like  an  ideal  gas. One.  The  second  thing  that  I'm assuming  is  when  you  see  the  word rigid  said  about  the  container, that's  like  code  for  it doesn't  expand  and  contract. That's  code  for  your  volume,  right? Or  let's  say  V  two  big  V  two. So  the  overall  volume  is  equal  to  B  V  one. We're  going  to  assume  that the  container  is  also  impermeable,  right? Impermeable.  What  does  that  mean? It  means  no  mass  in  or  out,  okay? And  so  what  this  implies  then is  that  V  two  or  V two  divided  by  M is  equal  to  V  one  divided  by  M,  right? So  the  specific  volume  two  is  equal to  specific  volume  one, and  you're  going  to  neglect changes  in  kinetic  energy, and  you're  going  to  neglect  changes in  potential  energy,  right? Cool.  All  right. Good. So  we  can  write  our  conservation  of  energy. So  here  we  can  say,  right,  the  change in  the  E  of  our  system, is  equal  to  E  in  minus  our  E  out. All  right.  Our  E  in  then  is  what  W  in  plus  Q in  minus  W  out  plus  Q  out. All  right.  The  changes. So  one  of  the  ways  that  we  can have  changes  in  this  in  the  system? So  that's  how  we  can  transfer  it,  right? But,  like,  think  about  your  bank account,  your  thermo  account. So,  what  are  ways  that the  energy  can  change  in  a  control  volume? So  temperature,  which  is then  basically  internal  energy,  right? So  we  can  talk  about,  you  know, Delta  U  plus  Delta  E  plus  Delta  P is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  Wn  plus  Qn minus  W  plus  Q  out. From  our  assumptions  here,  right? We're  going  to  neglect  kinetic  energy. We're  going  to  neglect  changes in  in  potential  energy,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  equal  to our  delta  E  system. So  we  break  that  down.  Okay?  Talk  to me  about  this  formula. So  do  we  have  work  transfer here  for  an  isochoric  process? No,  okay?  So  we  have no  W  in  there  and  no  W  out. What  about  Q  in? No,  right?  So  we  just  have  that. So  at  the  end  of  it,  so our  E  in  minus  our  E  out  is  nothing  but, um,  Q  out,  right? And  the  change  in  the  energy  of  the  system is  only  going  to  be  changes in  internal  energy,  right? So  basically,  Delta  U  is going  to  be  equal  to  Q  out. All  right?  Yes,  please. Negative.  You're  on  it,  man. I  like  that.  Okay. Right.  Right?  This  is  a  process moving  from  the  plot that  we  see,  we're  moving  1-2. So  etily  this  change  in internal  energy  is  U  two  minus U  one  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  our  Q  out. All  right. Cool.  Yeah,  so  everything  until  now, right,  should  make  sense.  All  right? For  an  ideal  gas, what  I'm  going  to  tell  you  right  now, I'm  going  to  tell  you  something. I'll  back  it  up  with  an  example, and  then  we'll  see what  time  as  we  go,  all  right? Changes  in  the  internal  energy  of an  ideal  gas  only depend  on  temperature,  okay? Not  pressure,  okay? It's  only  temperature,  all  right? I'll  back  this  up.  You  did these  simulations  of  an  ideal  gas with  these  particles  moving  around. Translational  kinetic  energy,  okay? So  it's  only  one  half  mv squared  for  each  particle,  all  right? Okay.  Um,  That's  good. What  I'm  going  to  tell  you  is  that,  like, temperature  is  equal  to that  energy  times  a  constant. A  constant  is  called Boltzman's  constant  K,  right? So  t  is  basically  equal to  transitional  kinetic  energy,  right? Fine.  Bear  with  me. You'll  see  with  time,  okay? But  the  point  is  that  this  is kind  of  like  lame  to stop  here  at  U.  I  want to  go  a  little  bit  further,  right? So  some  facts  dU  is  equal  to the  mass  of  the  substance  involved  for an  ideal  gas  times  a  constant. I'm  just  going  to  call  it  C  and  give it  a  little  V.  We'll  deal  with  that  later. N  times  dt,  all  right? The  units  of  CV  here  have  the  units  of kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  kelvin. This  is  basically  a  measure  of  if  I put  some  amount  of  heat  into  a  substance, how  much  does  this  temperature  change? It's  very  important,  and we're  we're  going  to  use  it  a  lot. So  this  applies  for  ideal  gas. Alright.  Alright,  so  if we  take  this  and  we  put  it  to  here, what  I  can  write  is  that M  times  this  constant  times T  two  minus  T  one is  going  to  be  equal  to negative  Q  out,  all  right? And  so  now,  with  that,  right, if  we  knew  the  mass,  which  we're  told, if  we  knew  the  constant, which  I  could  give  you,  okay? And  if  we  knew  the  difference  of T  minus  T  one, we'd  have  to  the  Q  out,  right? So  pretty  much  until  this  point, we've  got  our  governing  equations  good. We've  got  how  we're going  to  get  the  solution, and  all  we  need  to  do  now  is compute  properties,  right? That's  the  next  stage in  our  problem  solution. All  right. So  how  are  we  going to  compute  the  properties? How  do  we  compute  properties  of  an  ideal  gas? Okay.  I'll  give  you  that  one. So  ideal  gas  equation,  right? Idel  gas  equation.  All  right. So  P  vp1v1  is  equal  to,  which  means  the  same. R  of  air  times  times  T  one. We  can  put  M  to  the  other  side, so  we'll  have  P  one  Little  V  one is  equal  to  R  air  times  T  one. This  is  not  like  joules  per  mol  Kelvin. You  can  have  these,  which  are  joules  per kilogram  per kelvin  for,  like,  all  substances. Alright  You  can  look  it  up  in  your  textbook. Um  Okay,  we  know  P  one, we  know  T  one, we  know  R.  We  don't  know  V  one,  right? So  the  first  step  is  basically  V  one  is  R A  T  one  divided  by  P  one,  right? Cool.  That's  everything  for  state  one. We  have  T  one,  we  have  P  one, we  have  V  one.  Caput,  all  right? Now  we  come  to  state  two.  State  two. What  do  we  know  about  state  two? What  information  is  given? Pressure,  P  two,  okay? So  I  can  go  p2v2  is  equal  to  R  T  two, we'd  like  to  find  T  two. So  T  two  is  equal  to p2v2  divided by  R.  So  what  don't  we  know  here? R  air,  sorry.  R  air,  R  air. What  don't  we  know  on  the  right  hand  side? V  two,  similar  or  identical,  right? So  we  know  from  from  over  here,  right? This  is  little  V  two is  equal  to  little  V  one,  right? Big  V  two  is  equal  to  B  V  one. The  mass  doesn't  change. Little  V  two  is  that. And  so  what  you'd  have  here  is  then V  two,  V  one, which  we  just  learned  here,  divided by  our  air,  okay? With  that,  you  have  T  two. With  then  the  T  two, you  can  plug  it  into  here. It's  the  negative  of  the  Q  out, but  we  can  rewrite  this  and  say the  Q  out  is  equal  to  the  mass  of the  air  in  the  control  volume times  the  constant  times  T  one, which  is  the  hotter  temperature minus  T  two,  okay? And  that's  a  key  part  of  it. Because  I've  written  this  as  Q  out, this  should  just  be  a  positive  number,  right? So  if  I  did  everything  right  and I'm  doing  a  cooling  process,  right, I'd  expect  T  two  to  be lower  than  T  one  there,  okay? At  least  today,  we  got  to compute  a  temperature  in  a  heat,  right? Next  time,  you  know, we'll  get  a  bit  further,  right? And  then  if  you  click  on  this  link, you  can  go  through  some of  those  numbers  and  see, and  that's  what  this  process  looks  like, right? And  this  is  a  straight  line  up  and  down, one  to  two  on  a  constant  volume,  okay? With  that,  I'm  going  to  close. I  hope  you  all  have  a  great  weekend. I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions.
