So,  coming  back  to  our  So when  we  were  talking  last  week about  the  Carnos  cycle, we  were  discussing  processes that  were  reversible,  correct? Like,  we  talked  about  isothermal, adiabatic  processes  that  were  reversible. We  strung  them  together,  and  we  got this  idealized  cycle. I  have  a  great  book  here. It's  a  physics  book  from  Alan,  so  Finn, a  lot  of  today's  lecture  is drawn  from  this  for those  of  you  who  really  like  old  books  and are  big  nerd  like  me, you  know,  you  can  go  out  and  get  that. And  in  this  book,  he  has  this  nice  example. And  it's  seemingly  simple. But  you  probably  if  you  really  want  to  think about  this  and  think about  reversible  and  irreversible, it's  so  simple,  but  complex  at  the  same  time. So  imagine  you  have  an  ideal  gas, okay,  here,  you  have some  weights  on  top  of  it. There's  the  pressure  on  the  outside, here's  some  external  pressure, some  internal  pressure. It's  an  initiated  equilibrium, and  you  got  a  tiny  little  weight. And  with  this  weight,  you  take  it  off. The  piston  expands  a  little bit,  has  a  bit  of  boundary  work. The  pressure  decreases,  you  know, slightly  as  a  result, and  it  comes  in  equilibrium. You  do  that  many  times. So  you  keep  sliding  thee  little  weights, and  eventually,  that  piston would  come  back  up  to  the  top. And  then  if  you  repeated  the  process  there, you  would  come  back  down  to  the  same  height. The  key  thing  is  that  if  I  showed  you this  picture  on the  left  and  this  picture  on  the  right, and  if  I  did  a  good  job  scanning  it, you  wouldn't  be  able  to  tell the  difference  between  the  two,  right? You've  done? There's  no  change  to  your  system. There's  no  change  in  your  surroundings. They're  the  same. An  irreversible  process  is  this  example. So  imagine  here,  I  have  a  weight  A that's  initially  on  here,  and  I  take  it  off. This  thing's  going  to expand  very  rapidly,  right? This  thing's  going  to  move  up  really quickly  to  there. It's  going  to  come  up  to  this  height. To  bring  the  piston  head back  down  to  the  original  height, you  then  take  this  weight  B and  you  put  it  on  there  and  you  come  back. And  you  look  at  this  system, and  you  say,  Hey,  look, this  thing  is  the  same as  this  thing.  That's  reversible. Except  it  isn't. Because  if  I  was  to  show  you  the  picture  of the  one  on  the  left  and the  picture  in  the  one  on  the  right, you  would  agree  hopefully that  they  are  not  the  same. Right?  Your  surroundings  have  changed. This  is  going  to  take  you  more  than the  30  seconds  of  looking  at  it  to  process. It's  in  your  slides,  but  come  back  to this  and  think  about  it  because  this is  a  great  example  of what  reversible  and  irreversible  mean. Right?  So  you  point  out  that  there. I  just  walked  you  through  it. You  slide  that  weight  over, you  slide  the  other  one. And  the  key  thing  to  pay  attention  to  is  that these  things  are  not  the  same  up  here,  right? It  goes  without  saying,  too, the  reversible  processes  tend to  put  out  more  work. So  as  engineers,  we're  interested  in  being  as close  to  reversible  as  we  possibly  can. Okay,  that's  on  that. So  To  help  a  little  bit  with  you being  able  to  at  your  party  to explain  the  history  of  thermodynamics. We  can  talk  about  this  book.  There's  a  book written  by  Rudoph  Clausius. Ruof  Clausius,  again,  First hair  Physics  at  Taha  in  Zurich. He  was  the  one  who really  sort  of  formalized  the  second  law. So  it  was  really  Sadi  Caro who  wrote  about  it  and  had  it  there, used  Caloric  theory,  which  was  wrong. Clausius  took  it,  polished it,  repackaged  it  there. And  in  this  book, has  many  books  and  many  things that  he  wrote,  but  he  has  this  one, which  is  an  English  translation of  his  German  text, where  he  looked  at the  mechanical  theory  of  heat  and the  application  of  it  to  heat  engines. Because  remember, the  whole  thing  is  interesting. You  want  to  take  heat, and  you  want  to  get  work. You  want  to  maximize the  amount  of  work  you  get out  for  the  heat  that  you  put  in. So  you're  obsessed  with  this. I  want  to  get  as  much  out  as  I  can  put  in. And  as  we  had  seen,  you  know, before  when  we  had  this  piston  example, we  know  that  with  that  ideal  gas, if  we  let  the  thing,  you  know,  expand  there, we  can  get  exactly  the  amount of  work  out  as  we  put  in, but  to  make  it  a  cycle, we  need  to  bring  that  back. And  to  bring  that  piston  head  back, require  transferring  heat  out,  right? To  cool  it,  to bring  it  back  to  the  initial  state. And  for  all  cycles  require  that, you  don't  just  get  to  keep  pumping heat  in  in  and  get  it. As  James  told  us,  if  we  kept  doing  that, what  would  happen  to  our  system,  James? Sorry.  Oh,  sorry.  Anyways,  it  blows  up. He's  so  engrossed  in  it.  That's  wonderful. He's  gonna  be  very fun  at  the  party  to  talk  to. So  anyway,  so  the  point  is  that, you  know,  we  know  a  bit  about  that. We're  gonna  have  to  put  some  heat  in, we're  gonna  have  to take  some  heat  out, and  we're  gonna  get  some  work. And  what  we're  gonna  sense  out  of this  is  that  not  all  heat is  created  the  same. Okay?  So  if  I  have  a  reservoir  and  I transfer  heat  from  it  at  a  high  temperature, this  is  probably  not  going  to  be  the same  as  transferring heat  as  a  low  temperature. As  we  know  now  in  how  we  produce  energy. And  this  is  what Clausius  was  looking  at,  right? So  if  you  look  at  his  book,  Alright, again,  I'm  going  to  spare you  the  details  on  it. But  the  key  point  here  on  in  this,  like, 500  volumes  page  text is  he  writes  this  statement  about  how he's  trying  to  link  that  work out  with  the  heat with  the  heat  that  he's  bringing  in. And  he  says  that.  The  work that  I'm  trying  to  transfer out  is  not  going  to  be  equal, basically  proportional  to  this  Q. It's  going  to  be  proportional  to  the  Q divided  by  the  temperature  of  the  reservoir, right?  Now,  this  is  deep  shit. Like  we're  not  go  to  get  this  today. Like  you're  going  to  think about  this  for  ten  years, and  I  sort  to  God, like  if  you  can  do  it  in  ten  years, I'll  be  proud  of  you,  right? But  this  is  what  he's  thinking. So  he's  thinking  right. So  I  if  I'm  gonna  make him  equivalent,  and  all  of  that, probably,  I'm  going  to  have  to  control for  the  temperature, and  this  is  what  he  writes. Okay.  But  Q  divided  by  t  is  going to  be  key  to  the  linking with  with  this  work.  Okay. So,  coming  back  to  rp since  most  of  you  have  heard  about  it. So  the  change  in  entro  P  for a  reversible  process  is  DS. So  if  this  differential  S  is equal  to  D  Q  divided  by  t, and  this  is  for  a  reversible  process. This  is  why  I'm  writing  this  as an  exact  differential, or  the  capital  letter  S is  entropy.  And  I'm  writing  the  statement. This  is  historically  how  it  was  defined, and  my  evidence, my  receipts  of  that  are  the  previous  slide. That's  how  he  developed. As  the  units  of  joules per  Joules  per  Kalvin,  ok? If  it  was  little  less,  it  would  be joules  per  kilogram  per  Kalvin. And  it's  from  the  Greek  for  Ergon  work, like  energy  we  had  talked  about before,  and  trophy  transformation. In  his  text  in  Clauses  tech, he  calls  this  digregation. It's  like  the  opposite  of  aggregate. So  you  have  something  aggregate. The  opposite  of  aggregate  is  this  word. And  he  had  another  word, transformational  content  like Faldunz  in  Halting  or something  in  German,  like  just  whatever. Anyways, there  was  a  Nobel  Prize  winner  Leon  Cooper, who,  supposedly,  according  to  Wikipedia, is  who  the  guy  in  Big  Bang  theory  is named  after  Sheldon  Cooper. Apparently  is  this  guy. It  doesn't  matter.  So  he  said  about Clausius  that  in  having this  nice  word  of  entropy, he  succeeded  in  coining a  word  that  meant the  same  thing  to  everybody,  nothing. All  right. So  again,  this  is  like  it's  very  difficult, right  Entropy  is  a  difficult  difficult. So  we  can  go  through  and  try  to  link  this, this  change  in  entropy to  heat  or  linking  entropy  and  heat. So  if  we  take  that  dS is  equal  to  the  dQ  by  T, and  we  integrate  since entropy  is  a  property,  okay? So  this  is  not  a  path  function. This  is  a  property. So  we  have  S  two  minus  S one  is  that  equal  to  the  integral  there. And  it  can  be  negative  or  it  can  be  positive depending  on  if  heat  is  absorbed  or  rejected. And  the  reason  for  this  is  that the  t  that  we're  dealing  with  here  is the  so  called  absolute  temperature. Absolute  temperature.  This  is  Calvin,  okay? And  in  the  Calvin  scale, there  is  no  negative temperature  unless  you're  doing  some  really, really,  really  weird  experiments in  the  lab  there. So  it's  a  positive, it's  a  positive  quantity. Okay.  And  so  if  you  take  again, so  now  we've  linked this  change  in  entropy  to  heat, and  we  can  look  at  a  special  case. If  we're  dealing  with  an  adiabatic, so  no  heat  transferred, reversible  transformation. So  because  it's  adiabatic, the  dQ  is  equal  to  zero. And  so  the  S two  minus  the  S  one  is  then  equal  to  zero. All  right. And  so  for  that  reason, adiabatic  reversible  transformations are  also  called  isntropic. So  Intropic  means  constant  entropy. Like  we  had  isothermal, constant  temperature, isobaric,  constant  pressure, isochoric,  constant  volume, isotropic,  constant  entropy. Have  we  seen  an  isotropic  process  already, actually?  Yes.  You  have. If  you  came  last  week,  you  saw  one. All  right.  So  All  right. So  if  you  want  to  see  this  plotted. So  again,  we  love  our  diagram. So  we  had  our  PV  diagrams,  and  all  of  that. A  very  important  one  when  we're analyzing  systems, according  to  first  and  second  law  principles is  what's  called  the  TS  diagram. So  on  the  vertical  axis, you  have  temperature, on  the  horizontal,  you  have  ro. Let's  say  you  started  some  state  A  one, and  you  finish  at  some  state  A  two. And  this  is  and  this  is  your  transformation, the  heat  that  you transfer  is  then  equal  to  the integral  from  one  state one  to  state  two  of  this. So  basically,  it's  the  area, the  shaded  area  that  I  draw  here  under this  curve  is  the  heat  that  you transfer  for  reversible  transformation. Okay,  so  like  if  you  thought  about  when  we were  looking  at  something like  the  carnal  cycle,  right? So  we're  looking  at  like  T, and  we're  looking  at  S, and  we're  drawing  Right, those  boxes,  from  our  different  states. So  in  this  case,  let's  say, this  is  the  T  cold,  and this  is  the  T  hot,  right? So  for  the  low  part  here, right,  we  could  integrate  and  have  this. For  the  higher  part  here, we'd  have  to  do  the  integrate, all  of  that  area,  right? And  the  isotropic  part  of  it is  right,  or  it's  constant. So  that's  how  that  looks  like. And  just  like  I've  drawn  here, if  you  were  to  take the  integral  over  the  entire  cycle. So  if  you  were  to  take  the  integral over  smashing  chalk  back  here. If  you're  taking  the  integral  then  over this  whole  cycle,  as  I  have  here. So  if  you  end  up  where  you  end  up  before, the  amount  of  the  net  basically  heat  that you  transfer,  is  that. All  right.  Just  like  I  show  you  here. So  you  do  this  first  process  here. This  is  an  arbitrary  one  and  you  go  back, then  the  net  heat absorbed  by  the  system  is  the  shaded  area. And  importantly,  for  us,  as  engineers, that  is  going  to  be  equivalent  to the  work  done  by  the  system  during  the  cycle. Because  you  remember  before,  we're dealing  with  these  control  volumes. And  in  those  cases, in  a  cycle  of  a  control  volume like  that  with  no  mass  in  and  no  mass  out, the  work  done  is  equal  to the  net  heat  absorbed.  Yeah. Yeah.  And  so  I'm  writing  the  sentence, and  I'm  saying  entropy  is  a  variable that  may  be  used  to  describe a  process  in  the  same  way  that  pressure, you  know,  volume  or  temperature  do. And  we  can  start  of  by  trying  to  say, I  mean,  first  of  all,  you  might  read that  and  say,  no,  it  isn't. That  doesn't  make  any  sense  to  me. So  we  can  start  of  by  thinking, let's  start  with  the  one  with  pressure. So  if  we're  thinking  about  how, you  know,  the  relationship  between pressure  and  energy. So  we're  sometimes  talking about,  P  DV,  right? So  if  you  think  about  the  boundary  work. So  the  pressure  for  isobaric  processes. So  the  pressures  that change  in  the  volume  is  going  to  be, you  know,  the  work,  the  work  that  you  do. In  the  same  way  if  I  think  about temperature  times  the  change in  entropy  is  the  same,  okay? What  type  of  property or  pressure  in  temperature? Are  they  intensive  or  extensive? Intensive.  What  type  of properties  are  is  volume? What  type  of  property  you  think  entropy is  then  Expensive. Yeah.  So  right? So  these  things  depend  on  the  right, like  the  size  of  the  system. What's  difficult?  If  I told  you  like  to  measure  pnure, right,  that  would  be  straightforward? If  I  told  you  to  measure  temperature of  this  room,  it  would  be  straightforward. If  I  told  you  to measure  the  volume  of  this  room, you  might  say,  screw  you. That's  like  really  hard,  but  if  I  gave  you a  tape  measure  in  a  lot  of  money, probably  you  would  do  it. If  I  asked  you  to measure  the  entropy  of  the  room, like,  you  know,  that's not  so  straightforward,  right? We'd  have  to  do  something like  with  this  link  of  Q. Maybe  we're  doing  something  with like  a  heat  transfer  in. We're  looking  at  a  temperature  response, and  then  we're  getting  the  entropy. It's  not  as  obvious. So  I  mean,  use  this  analogies with  like,  kind  of  a  grain  of  salt, but  that's  just  to  give  you, you  know,  a  sense  of  that,  okay? And  you'll  find  it  in  the  tables. So  if  you  look  in  the  tables, again,  like  I  said  before, so  you'll  see  it's  the  little,  right, which  is  then  in  the  units  of kilos  per  kilogram  Calvin  there,  right? And  so  if  we  looked  at again,  another  special  case. So  here  if  we  look  at  the instead  of  an  tiobatic, if  we  look  at  the  isothermal, so  the  change  in  entropy  during an  isothermal  reversible  process. So  recall  before  this  equation, S  two  minus  S  one  was  equal  to  this  integral. If  the  temperature  is  constant, it's  not  being  affected  by  the  heat  transfer. So  if  it's  reversible,  right, we  have  the  Little  D, not  Delta  Little  D  Q, that  just  becomes  Q  over T.  Maybe  this  is  how  we'd  end  up  trying to  measure  the  change  in  entropy  of the  room  is  with  some  type  of  system  like that  of  Qs  and  T's  amount  of non  heat  transfer  at a  specific  temperature  for  it,  okay? And  what  can  you  use  this  for? So  I'm  giving  you  this  example  with  water. I  mean,  pretty  simple  example  with  water. So  if  we  take  ice  at  STP. So  if  we  take,  you  know, ice  at,  like, 1  bar  atmospheric  pressure,  here, it's  going  to  melt  at 273.15  Calvin  or  zero  degrees  C. What's  known  is  that  you  know, it'll  absorb  1,435  calories  per  mole  to  melt. So  that  is  because  this  is a  constant  pressure  process. Phase  change  here  is a  constant  pressure  process. If  we're  looking  at  going  from  pure  ice here  into  a  liquid. Okay.  And  if the  phase  change  is  a  p  equals  to a  is  equal  to  a  is  equal  to  a  constant  there. What  we're  going  to  be  able  to  do  is  we  can define  the  hp  of  melting. So  this  is  also,  like  table  values. You  can  look  up  to  this. Remember, when  we  did  for  vaporization,  right? We  had  the  liquid  vapor. We  had  an  enthalpy  that  was  HFG,  right? The  difference  between  the  enthalpy. When  you're  a  vapor,  and  you're  a  liquid, you  have  this.  For  vaporization. At  our  conditions,  it's  like 2,200  joules  per  gram or  2,200  kilo  goles  per  kilogram. It's  a  lot.  For  melting. When  it's  melting,  this  value is  about  an  order  of  magnitude  less. It's  still  substantial,  but  it's about  an  order  of  magnitude  less. That's  about  3:33  kilojoules per  kilogram.  Alright? And  if  you  then  want  to  say what  is  the  entropy  for  this  process, so  we  can  write  back  up  here. We  have  our  Q.  So  we have  this  Q  is  being  equal  to  t, so  the  temperature  where  we  transfer  it. As  we  know  from  melting, the  ice  doesn't  change temperature  when  it's  melting,  right? So  this  mixed  region,  it's  going  to  be a  constant  temperature  process  too, we  have  the  T, which  is  two  s  Calvin, and  then  we  have  the  S  two you  know,  minus  S  one. And  then  here  if  it's  capital  S  is, it'll  basically  work  like  that. And  so  you  rearrange  this, and  you'll  have  your,  you  know, this  Delta  S  as  being  equal  to the  Q  divided  by  the  t, which  from  what  we  know  before, if  we  have  the  mass  of  the  substance, times  the  Delta  H  divided times  the  H  value  that  I  have  there. I'm  going  to  be  able  to write  the  change  like  that. Okay?  So  that's  how you  would  go  about  that,  right? So  the  relationship,  then,  in  this  case, for  the  melting  process  is, the  change  in  entropy  is equal  to  the  heat  absorbed, the  latent  heat  absorbed  during  that  process, which  for  capital  S  is  then  M, and  then  divided  by  the temperature  that  we  had. If  we  didn't  have  this  was  in  capital  S, but  it  was  little S.  So  if  this  was  done  on  a  per  mass  basis, and  you  substituted  the  values,  All  right. Then  this  Delta  littles would  would  be  equal  to  this  three, three  kilojule  per  kilogram divided  by  the  273.15  Calvin. And  according  to  my  calculations, I  have  something  like  1.22 kilos  per  kilogram  Calvin,  right? So  that's  the  link  between  heat  transferred, and  the  entropy  change  of  your  system,  a?
