The All  right,  I  got  210. So  today  we're  talking  about property  tables  and  ideal  gas. Before  we  get  started, just  some  words.  All  right. So  in  the  first  problem and  a  lot  of  these  problems, when  you  do  it,  Okay. So  when  you  use  problems there,  a  lot  of  the  ones, especially  when  you  like property  tables  on  that, you'll  be  able  to  open  this  workbook. This  workbook  is  essentially  like a  constrained  Jupyter  notebook. It  has  pre  installed  packages like  PiKlor  and  all  of  that. If  you  open  that  and  launch  it, you're  going  to  see the  actual  Jupyter  Notebook  there. If  you  double  click  on  it, you  have  this  thing,  right? So  in  most  of  the  problems,  you  have an  identical  template  to this  also  in  the  practice  ones, and  this  is  going  to  be  the  same  exact  one that  you  will  see  in  a  quiz, to  the  ideas  that  you  practice  on actually  what  I'll  test  you  on. I'm  not  to  trick  you. Not  in  this  class  anyways,  okay? So  if  you  click  on  that, you  can  then  run  through  a  and  see  that? That's  one.  Okay.  The  second  thing is  that  I  don't  see  this  now. I  did  it  these  slides  and  now  I  don't  see it  is  that  when  you  use, Pi  killer,  okay  with  numbers,  it  needs  units. This  is  not  a  math  class.  It  may  be quite  mathy,  but  it's  engineering. In  engineering,  you  got  to  give  a  unit  to  it. And  so  a  lot  of  the  book problems  and  all  of  that  will  give  things an  MPA  as  an  input,  especially  on  pressure. Calvin  is  an  input  for  like a  default  input  for  Pikillor also  as  the  um  as  the  output. Unfortunately,  the  default  input or  fortunately, it  really  depends  on  the  problem. The  default  input  in pressure  is  like  KPA,  okay? So  I  recommend,  you  know, when  you  work  with  these  problems,  like, declare  your  units,  you  know, if  you  have  them  in  there  and,  you  know, and  sort  of  best  practice  with  that. So  if  anyone  had trouble  with  a  problem  like  this, especially  a  programming  one, that's  probably  the  source  of the  errors  that  you  haven't  declared. The  unit  for  that,  you've  just put  P  equals,  you  know, P  and  then  not  declared  that actually  that  pressure  variable is  an  NPA,  okay? Units.  Questions  about  this? Okay?  The  GSI, Cassadine  McCormick  will  post  like a  YouTube  video  that  goes  along with  the  problem  from  Homework  one. Hopefully,  that'll  assist  you, okay?  All  right. So  are  we  today?  We're  going to  talk  about  ideal  gas,  right? Give  it  go  deeper into  that  and  how  it  stands  in contrast  to  other  equations  of  state that  you  can  use  and  essentially get  into  the  ones  where  we  can predict  like  phase  transitions. That's  what  we  care  about  with  water,  right? The  fact  that  there's  the phase  transition  right  a  lot  of  times. And  we'll  also  talk  about  go  deeper into  these  two  concepts  of  this  constant. I  said  before,  like  Q  is  equal  to  C  Delta  T, the  meaning  of  those  C's. All  right?  Okay,  so  a  refresher, right,  for  a  pure  substance,  right? Before,  if  I  take two  independent  variables,  right? I  can  compute  a  dependent  one. An  ideal  gas  is,  um,  let's  say, like  air  or  nitrogen  is  a  pure  substance. So  that  means  that  if  I take  pressure  and  volume, I  should  be  able  to  know temperature  out  of  that,  right? So  PV,  I  should  be  able  to  get  the, um,  uh,  the  temperature  of  it. If  you  want  to,  like, understand  the  form  of  the  equation, right?  PV  and  T. I  put  them  on  the  left  hand  side, and  then  that  equation  should  be equal  to  zero,  right? Okay.  There's  two  ways  that you  will  see  the  ideal  gas. Normally,  how  it's  taught  in chemistry  is  like  this  form, PV  equals  N,  right, which  is  moles,  all  right? RU,  which  is  the  universal  gas  constant, right  in  joules  per  mole  per  degrees  Celsius, N  times  temperature,  right? So  when  you  see  it  in  this  form,  right, you  need  to  take  care  of  the  fact  that that  N  is  in  moles. And  remember  that  the  temperature  here  that you're  dealing  with  is  in  what  unit? Kelvin,  okay? The  way  to  check  yourself  is,  like, put  in  Celsius  at the  freezing  point  of water  or  the  melting  point  of  water. And  then,  like,  what  is the  pressure  that  you would  have  at  that  condition? What  are,  like,  the  two  potential solutions  to  pressure  that  you  could have  for  substituting  zero  degrees Celsius  into  that  formula? Zero  or  Infinity,  you  know,  and  beyond,  okay? So  to  avoid  Buzz  Aldrin and  whatever,  you  know, type  stuff  there, basically  stay  with  Kelvin,  all  right? Um,  Okay,  that's  one  thing, right?  It  is  related. This  universal  gas  constant in  joules  per  mole  per  kelvin, can  be  defined  also  in  physics. If  you've  seen  it  in  a  physics  context, sometimes  you  will  see  pv is  kt  where  N  is  the  number  of  molecules. The  K  there  is  Boltzman's  constant. Boltzman'  constant,  I  told you  before  it  is  joule  Kelvin  Actually, it's  like  Jule  per  something  per keelvin  joule  per molecule,  you  know,  with  it. And  it's  related  to  the universal  gas  constant through  Avago's  constant, right,  6.02  times  seven  of  the  23rd. I  learned  that  in  second  grade,  I  think I  haven't  forgot  that  shit  since,  right? So  it's  like  in  here  burnon.  All  right. So  you've  got,  you  know, this  thing  that  you  can use  to  interchange  between the  chemists  approach and  the  physicist  approach, namely  with  RU  and  KB,  right? Great.  All  right. If  we  want  to  write  the chemist  approach  in  this  class,  right, a  lot  of  times we're  going  to  be  dealing  with, you  know,  maybe  specific  volume. When  I  have  something  that  is  like, a  specific  per  mole, I'm  going  to  put  a  bar  above  it,  right? So  if  I  have  my  V  bar  here,  right, this  is  going  to  mean  that  it's  meters cubed  per  mole,  right? I'm  not  really  going  to  use  this  very  much. It's  not  really  going  to come  up  again,  I  think, until,  like,  I  don't  know, combustion, whenever  that's  a  distant  future  problem for  us,  very  distant. But  for  now,  right, that's  what  the  bar  will  mean. It  doesn't  mean,  like,  a  mean  value. It  means  that  it's  on  a  per  mole  basis,  okay? One  thing.  The  second  thing  is  that, um,  a  lot  of times,  we're  not  going  to  use  this. So  how  do  we  use  it? How  do  we  typically  would  use  it? Let's  say  we're  going  to have  P  little  V,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  meters  cubed  per kilogram  is  equal  to, you  know,  let's  say, R  times  T,  right? This  is  one  way  or  we're  going  to  see P  V  is  equal to  mass  M  times  R  T,  okay? Now,  this  R  is  not  universal,  okay? It  depends  on  the  substance  involved. Actually,  that  was,  like, a  problem  historical  development  of the  ideal  gas  equation  is no  one  could  figure  out  exactly  what  R  is. Also,  interestingly,  in  my  reading, no  one  is  quite  sure  why  we  use R.  Maybe  a  French  guy, you  know,  but,  like, so  there's  the  universal  R, and  that  is  universal,  and  that's  per  mole. But  as  soon  as  we  get  into  this  R, at  the  unit  of  this  R  is  right, it's  going  to  be  energy. So  it  can  be  joulle  or  let's  say, a  lot  of  times  in  the  book,  you'll  see, kilojoule  per  kilogram  Kelvin,  okay? Or  kilojoule  per  kilogram  degree  Celsius are  the  same,  um,  um, right,  one  degree  change  in  Kelvin  is one  degree  change  in,  uh,  in  Celsius. So  there's  going  to  be this  value  for  water,  right? There's  going  to  be  this  value  for,  you  know, whatever  substance  that  exists  there,  okay? And  obviously,  like  in  a  quiz or  something,  I  would just  give  you  this  value. I  don't  expect  you  to  memorize  it. I  didn't  learn  that  in  elementary  school, so  I  don't  remember  it,  okay? Um,  Cool. So  but  that's  basically  the  difference. So  like  I  said, we're  going  to  be  using  pretty  much  for most  of  the  time  this  form  of  it. You're  going  to the  specific  gas  constant  rate, which  depends  on  the  substance. And  these  things  exist  like  in  a  table or  in  a  you  know, you'll  just  have  a  value,  and  it'll be  given  normally  in  the  problem, okay?  Questions  about  that? Yes,  please. Name  in  question. An  M.  Okay. The  reason  why  I  use  an  M  is  because  there's an  M  in  mechanical  engineering and  we  are  biased,  okay? The  real  reason  is  that  it's  mass,  right? A  lot  of  times  we're  going  to  be dealing  this  problem  later  on  when  we  work. Maybe  there's  some  on  a mass  of  air  that's  in  here. I'm  not  a  mass  of  water. Don't  my  ruler  stick  is  not  moles,  right? If  told  me  to  tell  you  how  many moles  of,  you  know, stuff  in  here,  I  wouldn't  know what  to  put,  okay? So  we  use  M  because  it's  practical. And  a  lot  of problems  in  mechanical  engineering. Like,  if  you  measure,  um,  You  know, a  lot  of  the  systems  and instrumentations  are  going  to be  about  weighing  things  when you're  in  the  industry,  right? I  measure,  like,  a  mass  flow  rate. You  know,  I  don't  measure  like a  molar  a  molar  flow  rate,  right? Does  that  answer  your  question  or  no? Good.  Other  questions? Okay,  cool.  Okay. Yes.  Yeah,  you  can go  back  and  forth,  right,  you  know, from  being  in  a  molar,  right, from  a  molar  basis  to a  kilogram  by  using  the  molar  mass. So  that's  exactly  how  you  get  to an  R  value  like  this  is  you  would take  the  universal  gas  constant, you  know,  RU,  right, and  transform  it  using  molar  mass. So  that's  the  value  for carbon  dioxide  there,  okay? Mostly  informational,  but,  you  know, I  have  to  say  it because  if  there's  one  equation, the  most  abused  equation  in  this  class, it  is  this  equation. Okay?  You're  going  to  do  shit  like, I  want  to  use  this  for  water,  okay? And  you  shouldn't  do  that,  alright? That's  like  a  no.  Allright. We'll  get  into  why  you don't  use  that  basically  for  water. But  the  other  way  that  it's abused  is  people  are  using  basically  the, the  wrong  value  for the  gas  constant,  alright? Yeah,  so  where  is  this  valid? This  equation,  right,  is  valid  for things  with  very  low  density,  right? Is  a  liquid  low  density?  No,  okay? A  liquid  is  about  1,000  times denser  than  it's  like  vapor  form,  okay? One.  So  liquids? No,  definitely  out  of  the  question. When  it  comes  to  gases,  you  know, usually  it's  sort  of  okay  as  long  as  you're not  approaching  the  point where  a  gas  will  condense,  okay? So  that's  exactly  why water  vapor  doesn't  work,  right? There's  an  attraction,  um,  to  it,  okay? And  so,  really  the  conditions  where  you  have low  density  is  you  have  a vacuum,  right,  low  pressure. So  lower  pressure  conditions or  at  very  high  temperature. It's  a  pretty  decent  equation. And  then  these  are the  substances  that  work  for,  right? Air,  nitrogen,  oxygen, and  so  on  and  so  forth. You  probably  haven't  seen  like  well, maybe  you've  seen  a  liquid  version of  this.  You've  seen  a  rocket. I  don't  know  about  CO  two. But  otherwise,  you  know,  most  of  these  ones, you  never  would  have  seen  a  liquid  form. And  water  vapor  and refrigerants  should  not  be used  because,  you  know, a  lot  of  times  in  our  systems, when  we  put  in  the  values  of pressure  and  temperature  that  are  relevant, we're  near  a  saturation  point. We're  basically  neuro  point where  they're  going  to  condense. And  this  model  doesn't include  an  attractive  term,  okay? Yeah,  so  let's  think  back  again  a  bit. Like,  what  is  an  ideal  gas? An  ideal  gas  is,  like, molecular  dynamic  simulations  you  did,  right? A  bunch  of  billard  balls that  all  they  do  is  they crash  into  each  other  and  they  never  stick, right?  They  never  stick,  right? All  you're  doing  is  writing,  like, you  know,  the  sum  of  forces, you  know,  with  some  point  mass, and  they  hit,  but  there's never  like  a  transfer  of that  kinetic  energy  or an  attractor  where  basically  they start  to  stay  together. And  because  of  that,  it will  not  work  for  water,  right? You  need  a  different  equation  of state  if  you  wanted  to  then  add an  attractive  term  to  that,  okay? Yeah,  so  if  there's  phase  change involved,  no. And  by  default,  in  this  class, I  swear  to  you  know,  whatever. You  write  the  ideal  gas  equation for  water,  and  it's  like  a  zero. Like,  I'm  not  even  I'm  sympathetic I'm  sympathetic  in  so  many  ways. But,  like,  you  do  that,  and  it's  like, I  need  to  send  a  message. I've  sent  a  message  today, but,  you  know,  it's  just  don't  do  it. And  especially  don't  do  it  because  you  have a  thermo  calculator  to deal  with  water,  right? Yeah. Okay. Cool.  All  right.  Any  questions  about  that? Otherwise,  I'll  dive  into this  beautiful  example  here.  All  right? Okay.  So  what  problem  are  we  looking  at  here? We're  looking  at  a  problem  where  initially, we  have  some  container  of  volume  V  one,  okay? So  I'm  declaring,  like  two  containers. One  is  container,  let's  say, capital  I  to  the  left, Roman  numeral  one  to  the  left. Then  let's  say  Roman  numeral two,  you  know,  to  the  right. The  volume  of  Roman  numeral  one. So  this  container  on  the  left  is equal  to  V  one,  all  right? And  the  volume  on  this  side  is  equal  to five  times  the  volume  here,  right? So  we'd  say  basically  five,  five  V  one. This  side  contains  mass,  right? So  we  have  basically  some  mass, some  gas  or  whatever  that's,  um, you  know,  ideal  gas  that's  in  here. And  on  this  side,  we  have  a  vacuum,  alright? The  left  hand  side,  we  say  is  at 460  degrees  Celsius.  Why  not? And  a  pressure  P  one  that  we  don't  know. Alright? And  what  we're  going to  do  is  we're  going  to  take  this  partition. So  the  thing  separating  the  left from  the  right,  we're  gonna  remove  it,  right? We're  suddenly  going  to  remove  it. We're  going  to  let  this  gas expand  to  the  right  hand  side. Fine.  And  at  the  end  of  this, what  we're  going  to  do  is  we're  going  to transfer  some  amount  of  heat  into this  combined  system  such  that the  final  pressure  is equal  to  the  initial  pressure. I'm  exhausted  saying  that. So  who  would  bother in  the  right  mind  with  doing  this? I  asked  myself  as  I  wrote  all  that  out  and said  it,  Jewel,  right? So  I'll  put  this  to  the  site, so  maybe  it's  easier  for  everyone  to see  Jewel  James  Jewell, this  was  a  problem  that  really  concerned him,  his  thoughts,  right? Um,  and  it  had  to do  with  the  fact  that  if you  think  about  sort  of,  you  know, the  this  kind  of ideal  gas  relations  and  stuff, and  we're  thinking  about  how  properties, maybe  like  internal  energy, might  depend  upon  temperature. He  was  coming  up  with kind  of  clever  experiments where  he  would  keep, you  know,  have  a  big  change  in  volume, um,  you  know,  associated  with, you  know,  with  a  process  or maybe  a  big  change  in pressure  associated  with  the  process. And  he  wanted  to  see  if  there  was a  change  in  temperature  with  that,  right? There.  And  I'll  get  to,  you  know, in  the  following  part  of  what  his  result  was, what  he  basically  learned that  ideal  gases  depend  on,  all  right? Okay,  so  what  can  we  do? So  I've  got  the  values here  that  I've  written,  okay? I've  got,  you  know, what  I  want  to  determine  what  I've  well, maybe  I  can  put  it  to  the  middle. Okay,  to  the  middle. But  what  I  want  to  determine  is  T  two  here. I've  got  some  assumptions,  right? The  other  assumption  is  that  I'm  going  to assume  that  this  is  an  ideal  gas. Okay.  I'll  get  rid  of  this. We  don't  need  this  anymore. Okay.  Right? Okay,  I  feel  good  about  this,  right? And  we  know  that  we have  like  this  initial  state, right  in  the  final  state that  we  want  to  go  to. So  the  step  one  with  this  is  we'll  go to  our,  our  physical  laws. So  we'll  say  for  the  initial  state,  right, I'll  have  a  P  one  times  a  V  one, which  is  equal  to  the  mass one  times  the  ideal  gas  constant. I'm  not  sure  if  we're told  the  gas,  but  it's  okay. So  we  have  some  value  R,  and  then  we have  T  one  there,  okay? And  What  we  can  also  do  is we  can  write  the  same  equation  at state  two  when  we're  in  equilibrium. So  I  can  go  p2v2  is  equal to  two  R  times  T  two, and  we  assume  it's  the  same  gas, so  it's  the  same  value  of  R. We  can  do  a  substitution,  right? So  we  know  the  volume two  as  a  function  of  volume  one,  right? So  I  would  have,  P  two  times  five. You  know,  V  one,  that's the  partition  that's  on  the  right  hand  side. But  if  it's  an  expansion  process, what's  actually  my  total  volume?  All  right. So  if  this  is  right,  my initial  control  volume that  I've  drawn  here  with  my  boundary, and  then  I'm  going  to  allow  that  to  expand. You'll  get  some  nice  colors. So  that's  my  state  control volume  from  one  if  I  then expand  that  out  for, you  know,  is  basically  where  we're at  at  state  two. And  then  this  control  volume is  what  we  you  know, the  size  of  it  for  state  one. What's  then  the  volume  at  state  two? So  let  me  write  it  this  way. So  V  two  is  equal  to  what? 66v1,  right? Yeah.  Okay,  so  61  there. So  this  is  plus  V  one,  right? So  six  V  one,  and  again, that's  equal  to  M  R  T  two,  okay? So  that's  a  pretty  decent  equation, and  we  have  this  one  here. What  do  we  know  about  P  two? It's  P  one,  right?  So  then  we  have  here  P  one times  six  V  one  is  then  equal  to  two. Sorry,  two  R  T  two,  okay? In  this  process,  we  don't have  any,  mass  transfer. The  amount  of  mass  that  I  have  here, my  initial  state  is  equal to  the  amount  that  I  have  at  my  final  state. So  what  I  can  do  then  is  I  can  call  this  I can  leave  it  as  one  or  two or  I  could  just  call  it  as  M  if  I  wanted? Now  to  compute  T  two  from  this  here, what  we're  going  to  do  is I'm  going  to  take  equation  one. Let's  call  this  equation  one, and  let's  call  this  then  equation  two, and  I'm  going  to  take  the  ratio. So  I'm  going  to  take  the  ratio  of  equation two  divided  by  equation  one. And  so  what  I'll  have  here  then  is  P, 16v1  is  equal  to  two  R  T  two,  right? And  both  sides  are  then  divided by  P  one  times,  right? This  is  V  one,  and then  on  the  right  hand  side,  right, I  have  one  R  T  one,  right? Is  this  visible? No,  not  visible. Yeah,  that's  visible.  This  part  is. Okay.  Maybe  I'll  just  go to  full  screen  for  a  second. Hmm.  Okay.  Now,  what  cancels  here, right  is  we're  going  to  lose  the  V  one, which  is  out,  right? There's  no  mass  transfer, so  the  M's  are  the  same.  Ideal  gas. We  assume  that  there's  no  change in  the  composition  of the  ideal  gas  that  we  have  there. So  the  R  goes  away. And  so  then  if  we  rearrange,  what  do  I  have? And  also  the  pressure,  right? So  here,  the  pressures  also  drop,  right? So  the  pressures  drop,  and  it's  like  that. And  so  then  what  we'll  have  is  that  T one  or  T  two  is  going to  be  equal  to  six  times  T  one,  right? I  think.  Yeah.  Pretty  right. Sure.  Yes,  please. Partition  So  what  did I  say  was  on  this  side,  though? The  vacuum,  right?  So  vacuum, you  know,  here,  and  you  do  that,  okay? The  other  way  that  this  experiment  is  done is  if  you've  ever  seen,  like  a  shock  tube. So  if  you  ever  want  to,  like,  study the  species  that  come  out  of,  like, the  end  of  a  rocket  nozzle  and  all  of  that, they  do  these  really  cool  experiments where  you  basically  generate, like,  a  shock  wave  there. And  the  way  that  you  can  do  that  is  you  have really  high  pressure  up  here  and  then,  like, a  very  thin  membrane  that  you like  blow  open,  and  then  you  can,  like, watch  the  shock  and  measure  like evolution  and  cool  stuff  like  that. So  for  the  aero  students  in  the  room. Yes.  Yes,  please. Yeah,  I  mean,  it's  math,  right? So  you  can  do  that, but  then  at  the  end  of  it, you  want  to  T  two  is  some  form  of  that.  Yeah. Other  questions?  Okay. Yeah,  and  I'm  assuming, right,  that  you  can  do  the  substitution. It's  just  important  that  for  T  one,  right, when  we  do  the  substitution, that  T  one,  what  is  it  equal  to? We  said  two  or  460  degrees  C plus  273.15  there, and  then  that'll  get  you  into  Kelvin,  right? So  basically  have  to  multiply  six  times  that, and  then  you'll  have  actually  a  very  large that's  a  pretty  six  it's  like  seven. Yeah,  that's  like  a  number approaching  the  temperature  of  the  sun. That'd  be  a  fun  experiment.  Okay.  Great. All  right,  so  if  there's  no  other  questions then  with  that,  we'll  move  on. So  what  I'll  do  now  with this  while  I  get  myself  set  up  is, again,  kind  of  repeating  on the  property  value  determination. Hopefully,  some  of  you  had  had  a  chance  to try  with  the  Picoor. Otherwise,  you're  free  to  go, you  know,  with  the  table. So  in  this  problem, what  you're  going  to  start  off  with is  write  a superheated  vapor  at  this  condition. You're  going  to  cool  it  down  with constant  pressure  until it's  a  saturated  vapor. And  the  question  here,  there's  two. The  first  is  what is  T  two  for  the  water  vapor? And  then  what  would  T  two be  for  the  ideal  gas? And  the  idea  out  of  that  second  part  is  to compare  and  contrast  what  the  ideal  gas  is able  to  do  for  you  versus  what  is actually  the  ground  truth  for  that,  okay? I  have  to  launch  this,  so just  bear  with  me  for  a  second. I'll  launch  it  with  this,  and  then  I'll  put back  up  the  PPT  slide  with  that. Just  1  minute.  2025,  four. No,  B  four. That's  three  B  here. All  right.  That  should  be  active. Take  about  5  minutes  and  I'll circulate  around  the  room in  case  there's  any  questions. Anything  before  we  get  started? Wonderful.  Go  ahead  and  go.  All  right. If  you  click  this  link  here,  this  should launch  If  you  click  that  link  there, that  should  launch  one of  the  notebooks.  Okay. Great.  Is  it  working? Okay.  Super.  Can  you  click  on the  one  link  to  and  tell  me if  I'm  trying  to  get  to  it  right  now. Okay.  Did  you  get the  booking  for  the  Yeah, just  let  me  know  if  it  works. It  was  acting  funny  on  my  computer  earlier, but  I  think  it's  because  I  already had  a  version  open  of  it. That  URL  there,  if  you  have  the  PDF, if  you  have  the  PDF  of  the slides  from  B  courses, you  could  click  on that  link  and  then  it  would launch  a  calculator  that you  could  use  for  determination. But  you  did  it  last  time  without that,  so  I  guess  it's  fine. Okay.  Usually  students  used to  have  the  PDFs  open  now. Okay.  All  right. Cool.  All  good? Okay.  All  right.  Great. How  are  we  doing  back  here?  Good.  All  right. Cool.  They've  abandoned  you,  man. This  is  like  tragic.  It  hurts  me  to  see  it. They  told  you  A  plus  seven  right  there. A  plus  sitting  right  there  last  semester. Okay.  Did  that  notebook  work,  by  the  way? It  looks  like  you  got  one  lunch. Okay,  it's  from  this  homework. Okay.  All  right. Any  questions?  All  good?  Okay. Corners  back  there. Okay.  Okay.  Any  questions? Questions?  Tables,  to  do? Questions?  Yes,  please. So  the  define  a  saturated  vapor  as, like,  it's  close  to  condensing. Saturated  vapor  is  by definition,  a  quality  of  one. So  if  I  have  a  vapor  quality  of  one, that's  a  saturated  vapor. Oh,  okay.  And  a  quality  of zero  is  a  lid,  saturated  liquid. And  anything  between  X  equaling  zero, one  is  that  process  that  you  define,  right? So  I  go  from  the  vapor  and then  I  condense  down  to  the  liquid. It's  like  an  X  going  1-0, quality  of  one  to  zero. By  definition,  a  saturated  vapor is  X  equals  one. Yes.  Then  what's  a  superheated  vapor? When  you  are  beyond  that, if  I  have  a  pressure  at a  temperature  that's  then above  that  condition. Okay.  Yeah.  Okay.  Steam.  It's  steam. Yeah.  Okay.  Okay.  How  are we  doing  here?  How's  the  leg,  man? Do  ask.  Okay.  All  right.  Cool. Questions  here? Yes.  I  give  you  a  V  two. So  you  don't  need  M.  If I  have  a  specific  volume  there, you  don't  need  M  PV  is  RT, P  V  is  R.  Other  questions? That's  a  quality.  You  definitely need  to  use  that  in  the  calculation. It's  a  vapor  quality. That  means  it's  a  saturated  vapor. I  think  last  time  we  went  through some  of  the  basics  of  how  to  read PV  diagrams  and  all  of  that  and  we  talked about  X  equaling  one  is  when you're  a  saturated  vapor. Then  an  X  equals  zero  is when  you're  a  saturated  liquid. X  equals  to  one  just  says that  it's  a  saturated  vapor. Yes.  Okay.  Then  what else  do  you  know  about the  problem  in  state  two? I  don't  know.  Pressure  is  the  same. That  should  be  plug  in  crushing  it. Great.  Thank  you  very  much. All  right. All  right,  so  just  submit an  answer  if  you  have  any  answer, and  we'll  go  through  that  in  a  second  once I  figure  out  this. Fine.  This  way. Oh,  there's  so  much  reflection  there. Okay.  So  let's  see. What  this.  Allright  we  have  five  brave  souls. I'm  gonna  wait  till  ten.  Okay. 78.  Cool.  All  right. So  what  is  T  two  for  the  water  vapor? Okay,  we  have  a  lot  of 550  and  a  number  55450. Okay.  What  did  you  guys  have here  for  your  answer  for  two? Okay.  You  guys?  Here? Say  it  again.  537.  Okay.  So  it's  537  here? Okay.  Okay.  On  the  left  here, anyone  who  got  a  number? Okay.  Any?  Okay. All  right. Can  you  walk  me  through  your  process? So  what  did  you  do  to  get  to  537? 5,000  PA  in  the  second  part. Okay.  And  this  is  for  state  one. Oh,  I  read  this  wrong.  This  is  P  one. So  we  have  P  one  is  5,000  PA,  t18  37, P  two  is  equal  to  P  one, and  the  independent  variable  that  we  give here  is  X  two  is  equal  to  what? One.  Okay.  And  then, did  you  calculate  this or  you  did  books  for  this? Okay,  so  PCLor  and so  then  the  point  is  in  that,  right, basically  the  way  that  this  would  look  like is  H  that  state  of  our  water,  right? We  declare  basically  water  there, and  we  have  X,  which is  then  equal  to  our  X  two, which  we've  defined  then  above, and  then  our  P  is  equal  to, um,  Well,  we  could  just  write  P  two,  right? So  I  could  write  just  P  two, which  then  puts  it  in  a  KPA, or  I  could  write  P  two  and  MPA  and  then declare  MPA  as  a  unit. And  then  if  you  win and  give  it  a  name,  right? So  a  name  then  equals  to  two,  okay? And  so  then  your  call  is  what? If  this  is  then  ST  one,  right? So  this  is  ST  one, then  T  two  is  t  dot  T.  Okay?  Great. Are  there  any  comments  about  this? I  love  dissent,  right? I  love  arguing.  When  you  go to  law  school,  all  you  do  is  argue. Spend  all  the  time  back  and  forth,  right? Um,  Rounding,  yes.  That's  the  limits. That's  the  quantum  problem. Okay?  All  right. Okay.  And  I  can  double  check  and  see, but  let's  presume  if  that's  done  right, then  this  is  the  closest  value  then  to  550. Okay.  So  for  the  ideal  gas, Here,  I  have  200,  3045550. Okay,  so  it  looks  like  we have  some  zero  around  300. I  have  some  around  450. And  then  I  have  some  around  550  Kelvin  here. Okay. How  about  here  in  the  front? What  was  you  guys'  approach for  competing  with  the  ideal  gas? Okay.  You?  No?  Okay.  That's  a  lot  of  votes. Okay.  Anyone  who  cares  to  share? I'm  like,  striking  out  completely. Okay.  All  right, so  I'm  going  to  start  writing  things, and  then  you  tell  me  when I've  written  something  wrong,  okay? All  right.  So  we  have  here  R  RV  is  equal to  RT  V  R  T  two. What's  the  value  for  R? Loud.  Otherwise,  I have  to  open  my  slides. Eight  point?  8.31.  In  what  units? Joules  per  mole  K.  Okay. You  have  any  other  takes  on  this? Can  someone  pull  up  this  slide  and actually  read  the  R  value  that's  on  it. They're  Berkeley  students.  I  believe  in  you. No.  R  is? Oh,  my.  This  is  awesome. It  was  on  the  screen,  guys. 461.52  joules  per  kilogram  per  kelvin,  okay? All  right.  So  we  have that  as  an  R  for  this,  okay? Now,  that's  important,  right, because  this  V  is  in  what  units? Per  kilogram,  right? This  is  not  in  moles,  right? If  it  was  in  moles, I  would  have  written  this. And  if  I  wrote  that,  that  could  be the  universal  gas  constant, which  is  what  this  is,  okay? But  we're  not  dealing  with  moles, we're  dealing  with  mass,  right? Because  of  the  V  value,  which I've  given  also  there. So  the  V  two  is  0.039 4  meters  cubed  per  kilogram. And  so  all  you  need  to  then do  is  take  your  T  two, which  is  equal  to  your  P  two, you  know,  V  two  divided by  divided  by  R,  okay? So  the  R  you  have, which  is  this,  the  P  two  you  have, which  is  what,  5  million  pascals, and  then  the  V  two,  which  is  the  value. So  if  you  substitute  that  in, you'll  then  get  a  a  T  two  value. I'm  sorry  that  this  wasn't  on  the  screen. I  also  have  my  own  issues with  this  version  of it  being  different  from  the  computer. But  yeah,  in  any  case, These  types  of  values  here  are like  you  can  look  that  up  in  the table  or  Pi  kilo. You  can  also  call  the  ideal  gas constants  for  these  substances, or  you  can  just  know  8.31  in  the  molar, the  molar  mass  of  water, and  you  can  get  it  into  that  value,  okay? But  the  point  is  that  Yeah, let's  substitute  some  numbers. So  here,  right? So  I  have  five  times  ten  to the  6  pascals,  my  V  two, which  is  0.039  4  meters  cubed  per  Kelvin. Okay?  This  is  then  divided  by  what  my  R, which  is  461.5  joules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. Can  someone  calculate  that  for  me? So  5  million  times  zero  point  basically 0.0  4/460.  What  is  that? Okay.  Ten  more  seconds. I'm  going  to  do  it  on  my  phone  and  then  426? Okay.  Let's  take  a  three. Anyone  else  double  check? 426.  Okay. And  so  this  426, if  we  then  compare  that  with  what  we  had  from the  537  there,  right? That's  an  error  of  what, more  than  what,  25%, 2020  5%  of  an  error  computing between  ideal  gas  and then  what  you'd  have if  you  use  tables,  right? So  the  take  home  message there  is  that,  right, when  you're  near  the  saturation point  of  any  substance, in  this  case,  the  X  equals  to  one, an  ideal  gas  equation is  not  going  to  cut  it,  right? How  much  error  did  I  say  was  allowed  in this  class?  2%,  okay? That's  much  more  than  2%. Okay?  Great.  Any  questions  about  this? Okay.  Cool. So  if  you  do  want to  use  an  equation  of  state,  though, to  get  at  this  process  of interaction  and  condensation  there, you  can  add  an  attractor  term. So  you  can  take  the  ideal  gas  equation, go  in  and  put  a  term  that  says, Hey, the  molecules  now  like  each  other,  right? They're  not  indifferent  to  each  other. They  like  each  other.  And  this  was the  work  of  Vandervals,  right? So  Vander  Walls, maybe  you've  heard  of  it  before. But  he  did  his,  like, doctoral  dissertation  on  this, which  actually,  if  you  look  at  it, it's  kind  of  unbelievable,  right? I  mean,  So  what? Like,  26-years-old,  you  know, going  in  there  and  then  writing  this  up. And  all  at  a  time when  people  weren't  really  sure  that, like,  Adams  existed,  right? So  if  you  read  about,  like,  people  like Ernest  Mach  of  the  Mach  number, Mach  didn't  believe  in  the  Adam,  right? So  he  was  a  positivist. He  thought  if  you  couldn't measure  something,  it  didn't  exist. Or,  you  know,  it  can't  you  know, it's  not  even  a  question,  you know,  worth  asking  there. But  Vandervots  probably because  he  was  young,  you  know? He  was  like,  Okay,  I  don't care  what  those  old  guys  think. But,  um,  you  know, so  you  went  in  and  did  it,  okay? So  that's  one  part.  So  you had,  like,  an  attractor  term. The  other  thing  is  that  with  an  ideal  gas, the  gas  molecules  don't  occupy  a  volume. Even  if  I  show you  that  Billerbalt  simulation, they  don't  have  a  volume. They're  point  sources,  okay? So  if  you  want  to  get  this  right, especially  when  you look  into  the  condensation and  processes  like  that, they  have  to  have a  finite  volume  to  them,  okay? Okay.  So  B  is  the  volume  term. So  that  says  that  there's  a  finite  volume to  these  atoms  or  molecules, and  the  AV  squared  term  is  the  attractor. This  is  basically  what says  that  at  some  point, there's  some  amount  of that  we  like  each  other,  right? So  if  I  plot  a  PV  diagram, so  let's  say  I  take,  um, you  know,  a  high  temperature. Let's  say  I  take the  temperature  at  the  critical  point for  for  water,  okay?  Right? I  can  produce  a  plot that  shows  this  behavior,  right? This  is  nothing  but  Pi  kilo, you  know,  and  computing, and  that's  like  how  my  isotherm would  look  like  in  a  PV  diagram,  okay? If  I  now  take  Vander  Wall's  formula, which  I  had  before,  okay, I  take  that  and  I  can  compute  A  and  B. I'll  go  into  a  second  how  you  compute those  A  and  B  constants, but  I  can  compute  them. And  the  red  line,  so  the  blue  line is  Pi  killor  the  water  properties, and  the  red  line  is  Vandervls,  okay? Right?  So  without  any  knowledge  of  an  atom, right,  math  and,  like, a  bit  of  creative  thinking and  some  understanding on  things  that  were  measured,  right, he  produced  a  line  that  looked  like  that, which  I  write  a  lot  of  papers, and  that's  pretty, like  That's  pretty  not  bad. That's  better  than our  2%  error,  kind  of,  you  know, without  knowing  anything,  getting  to that  level  is  pretty  good. Right?  Captures  the  trends  and  all  of  that. So  that's  pretty  neat. One.  So  that's  a  super  critical  point. Now,  you  can  go  in and  start  to  look  at  this  process. You  can  analyze this  equation  when  you  actually get  near  the  phase  transition, which  I  mentioned before  is  what's  interesting. So  the  blue  line  here,  so we'll  go  to  a  lower  temperature. Let's  say  90%  of  the  critical  temperature, which  is  647  Kelvin  for  water. Um,  I  can  plot  the  blue  line,  right? So  I  have  the  blue  line,  right? I'm  decreasing  my  specific  volume. I  hit  a  quality  of  one  of  vapor. I  get  to  quality  of  zero,  right? It's  a  saturated  liquid, and  then  I  shoot  up. That's  all  fine  and  well. You  go  through  Vandervals,  right? That  looks  pretty  good  until  we  get  kind of  to  the  saturated  regime. It  overshoots. It  then  undershoots, and  then  it  shoots  back  up,  okay? And  you  could  say  to  yourself, that's  a  pretty,  like,  shitty  model,  right? I  look  at  that. Like,  actually,  you, you  were  raving  about  this, and  maybe  that  guy  shouldn't  have  passed  with his  PhD,  you  know,  there. But  there's some  interesting  features  of  this. So  the  first  is  that  at  least  he  tried  to hit  hit  the  dome  here,  you  know,  with  it. Um,  And one  thing  that's  interesting  about  this, and  now  this  is  just  me  being, like,  an  older  guy  telling  stories. So  if  you  want  to  go  to  sleep, you  can,  but  I  think  it's  interesting. You  can  go  from  this  point C  to  D,  okay,  right? It's  still  kind  of  moving  with a  similar  slope  that  you  had  here  coming  in. And  B  to  A,  right? It's  moving  with  kind  of  a  similar  slope  as it  exits  from  the  dome,  right? But  from  B  to  C, you  have  an  inversion,  okay? And  what's  the  consequence of  this,  all  right? So  from  A  to  B  and  C  to  D, so  the  change  in  pressure divided  by  the  change  in volume  for  a  constant temperature  is  negative,  okay? Now,  that  makes  sense,  right? If  I  take  something  and I  increase  the  volume,  right? So  let's  say  that  experiment  we  did  before, I  increase  the  volume  without  heat  addition, I  would  expect  a  decrease  in  pressure. That's  a  negative  slope,  right? So  DPDV  should  be  negative. However,  this  shows  positive,  right? So  that  means,  like,  as  I  would increase  the  volume, the  pressure  should  go  up. And  that  makes  no  fucking  sense,  right? That  doesn't  make  any  sense.  Okay?  So  this, probably  B  to  C,  is  not  allowed. Thermodynamically,  it  is  unstable.  All  right? Um,  Yeah,  so  that's  kind  of  neat. But  the  other  two  parts, A  to  B  and  C  to  D  aren't  they're  stable. That's  allowed,  right? That  still  follows  what  we  said. And  so  what  makes  this  kind  of neat  is  that  with  this  kind  of  procedure with  Vandervals  defining  point  B and  point  C  for  substances, you  can  produce  regions  of what  we  would  call  metas  sttability,  okay? And  again,  you're  not  going to  be  on  an  examine  stuff, but  some  things  you  should just  know,  like  water, for  example,  does  not  freeze at  0  Celsius,  right? If  I  want  it  to  freeze, you  need  to  cool  it  much  below. Much  below  zero,  okay? So  when  you  have  liquid  water, that's  a  liquid  water  below  0  Celsius, that's  a  meta  stable  liquid,  right? If  anyone  watches,  like, the  Buffalo  Bills,  you  know, play  football,  it's like,  actually,  they're  good  now. They're  very  good.  But  for  a  long  time  not. But  the  point  is,  you'll  see,  like, sometimes  there's  like  these  videos in  like  the  fridge  and they'll  take  a  water  bottle out  of  a  fridge  a  game. It's  like,  hilarious. Fridge  in  a  place  where  it's  like, minus,  you  know,  whatever  degrees  Celsius. They'll  take  the  water  out  and then  they'll  like,  flick  it. And  then  all  of  a sudden  you  see,  like,  solidification. Like,  suddenly  that  jostling  of  it  caused it  to  freeze  and  that's  a  meaable  flu. It's  like  beautiful  tube. You  want  to  come  my  lab.  I'll  show you  some  wacky  stuff. But  that's  a  metastable  fluid. It's  the  same  when  you  boil. If  you  boil  something, it  doesn't  happen  at  100  degrees  C  here. You  need  to  push  way  beyond  that. You  have  to  make  the  surface much  hotter  in  order  to get  the  liquid  to transition  into  being  a  vapor. And  the  same  also  in  condensation. It  doesn't  happen  at  the  dew  point. You  usually  got  to  cool  it  below,  um,  there. And  anyways, the  take  home  message out  of  this  is  that  this  kind  of pretty  smart  young  guy in  his  graduate  studies, not  too  much  older  than  you,  you  know, went  in  and  wrote  this  kind  of seemingly  simple  formula  that produced  this  kind  of, you  know,  results,  this  insight, which  to  this  day  we  look  into. So  in  my  lab, we  look  into  a  lot  of  what  we  call these  metastable  transitions. When  does  water  boil? When  does  it  condense?  How  does  it  freeze? I'm  going  to  talk  like  we  got Boeing  executives  below  us  at  the  moment. So  in  30  minutes, I'm  going  to  go  talk  to  them  about some  of  the  problems  and  icing  that we  have  that  are  you  know,  that  exists  there. But  this  kind  of  like,  you  know,  A,  B,  C, D,  it's  kind  of  it's  kind  of  neat,  okay? And  again,  all  from  young  man doing  grad  school  with  it,  okay? It's  also  interesting  to look  at  the  ideal  gas. So,  you  know,  again,  we  had  property  tables, we  had  Vanderalls, and  you  can  also  put  on the  same  plot  than  the  ideal  gas. And  from  this,  you'll  see, again,  so  very,  um, low  densities  out  here,  very  low  pressures. Everything  aligns,  okay? So  that's  all  valid. But  who  cares?  I  mean,  like,  who  cares? Like,  that's  not  where  a lot  of  the  action  happens,  right? A  lot  of  the  action happens  over  when  you  get  here. And  at  this  point, you  see  a  strong  divergence  of the  ideal  gas  equation from  the  other  two  cases,  okay? Great.  What  I  want  to wrap  up  with  here  and  let's  see  if  I  have, you  know,  the  amount  of  time  for  it. Otherwise,  I  can  continue  next  week is  this  business into  these  constants  or these  specific  heats,  right? So  in  that  problem  we  did  before, right,  we  took  basically  a  container. We  defined  a  mass. We  transferred  some  heat  into  it, and  we  wanted  to  know  what was  the  change  in  temperature. We  knew  the  change  in  temperature, and  we  wanted  to  know how  much  heat  that  we  put  in. We  did  a  conservation  of  energy. We  said  the  change  in  energy of  this  control  volume  is equal  to  how  much  enters minus  how  much  is  out. These  are  little  E.  So  this  is  like  per  mass. Um,  Right, this  system  is  kept  at constant  volume,  right? So  the  change  in  the  energy  of the  system  is  nothing  but  the  change  in, um,  uh,  the  internal  energy. The  E  and  then  the  E  out  of  this  are  only going  to  be  heat  transfer  processes. And  so  what  you're going  to  end  up  with  is  that that  heat  in  is  this  constant  times  dt, and  we'll  call  this  a  CV,  right? So  it's  constant  volume, we'll  say  C,  little  V  times  dt, and  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to  d, um,  to  little  D,  you  know,  little  U. And  then,  by  definition, so  the  definition  then  of the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume,  right, is  the  partial  derivative  of the  internal  energy  of  your  control, you  know,  of  the  system  with  respect to  temperature  for  constant  volume. We're  going  to  use  this  like a  ton,  like  a  ton,  okay? So  like  this  makes  you  go,  Oh, it  doesn't  we're  going  to  use  it  a  lot,  okay, especially  with  the  engines, and  and  fun  stuff  like  that. So  this  is  kind  of  like  let's call  it  factual,  okay? Factual,  right? And  we  do  the  same  heat  addition  process, but  not  constant  volume, we  have  constant  pressure. You  expect  there,  there's  going to  be  not  just  the  warming, but  potentially  work,  right? Because  I  have  a  P  Delta  V.  So  what you're  going  to  expect  is  that that  value  should  be  higher,  right? Because  when  I  transfer  some  heat  in, I'm  going  to  do  some  work  at the  same  time  that  I'm  heating,  right? Um,  We'll  get  into, like,  what  this  term  means  as  a  little  H, but  essentially  its  definition  is the  partial  derivative  of enthalpy,  essentially, kind  of  energy  with  respect  to temperature  for  constant  pressure, and  we're  also  going  to  use  that one  a  ton,  okay? Their  units  are  energy  per  mass  per kelvin  or  energy  energy  per  mass  per  degree. So  it  could  be  degree  Kelvin  degrees  Celsius. It  doesn't  matter. A  lot  of  times,  actually,  all  the  times, it's  going  to  be  a  Delta  T.  We're always  going  to  be  working with  differences  in  temperature. So  it  can  be  differences in  temperature  Kelvin  temperatures and  temperature,  Celsius. As  long  as  you're consistent,  you're  good,  okay? But  again,  it's  like  heat. I  put  heat  in, I  expect  the  temperature  change,  right? And  the  constant  in  front  of  it  is the  specific  heat,  okay? And  so,  coming  back  to  Jules  experiment, right,  he  was  basically  very, you  know,  very  concerned  with how  this  thing  here. So  basically  calculating,  especially  CV  here. So  if  I  kept  things  at constant  volume  and  I  made  changes, you  know,  will  I  actually  measure a  change  in  temperature,  okay? And  it  turns  out,  I'm  going  to foreshadow,  we'll  get  into  it. But  for  an  ideal  gas,  you  know, this  internal  energy,  you  know, is  only  dependent  upon  temperature  there, right? So  when  you  give  me  the  CV, it  only  depends  on  that. It  doesn't  depend  on  temperature, or  it  depends  on  pressure  or  volume,  okay? With  4  seconds  to  go, I'm  going  to  close  it  there. If  you  have  questions,  I'm  up  here. Otherwise  I  got  to  run  downstairs. Thank  you,  everyone. Thank  you  for  your.
