My  life Alright, I  have  310,  so  I'll  get  started. Today,  we're  going  to  continue  with  part  five of  Chapter  five of  the  book  in  part  five  here, which  is  on  Control  volumes. Half  to  today. You  won't  be  able  to  do  all  of  this, but  we're  going  to  be  solving  or  showing  you the  energy  balance  problems for  steady  flow  devices. So  nozzles,  like,  rockets,  compressors, turbines,  throttling  valve, mixing  chambers,  and  heat  exchangers. Yeah.  So  if  you  recall,  in  the  last  lecture, again,  we  started  to  analyze this  control  volumes  where we  could  transfer  mass  in  and  out. And  we  did  this  exercise  with the  imaginary  piston  at the  entrance  and  the  exit, and  we  recognized  that when  we  have  a  flow  coming  in, we  can  have  a  flow  work  term,  right? So  a  PDV  that  happens  there,  right? This  is our  beautiful  system  which  showed  that, so  the  different  streams that  can  come  in  that  come  out, the  work  that  can  be  transferred  in  and out  in  the  work  or  the  heat. The  energy  that  can  be carried  by  the  streams, we  recognize  as  like  little  E, so  we  can  have  it  carrying  internal  energy, velocity,  so  kinetic  energy, or  potential  energy. And  again,  when  it's  little  E, this  is  all  on  a  per  mass  basis. Is  there  a  question?  Something  or. Okay.  Lots  of  math. At  the  end  of  it,  what  we did  with  all  this  math  is  that  we  had extracted  that  flow  work  term  out of  the  out  of  the  work  term, we  combine  that  flow  work then  with  internal  energy, and  we  had  this  quantity  enthalpy, which  appeared. Of  course,  we  defined  it  before, but  now  you  have,  you  know, a  bit  more  of  a  physical  understanding as  to  the  meaning  and  the  usefulness  of  it. So  entropy  is  internal energy  plus  pressure  times the  specific  volume  there. And  the  point  is  that  if  you don't  use  enthalpy  for  this  in  the  analysis, you'll  be  using  internal  energy.  And  the  work That's  transferred  in  and  out  of  the  system. It's  not  just  the  shaft  work, but  it's  also  the  flow  work. So  when  you  try  to  estimate  useful  work, if  you  do  it  with  internal  energy  alone, it's  going  to  be  wrong.  Alright? Great.  Clear?  Super. All  right.  So  for most  of  the  systems, we're  going  to  be  looking  at. We're  going  to  have  a  single  mass  stream in,  single  mass  stream  out. So  that's  by  far  most  of  the  systems. There  are  some  other  ones, which  we  will  explore. We  might  have  two  streams  coming  in. So  think  about,  like,  you  know, mixing  steam  with  like, cold  water  to  make  like,  you  know, hot  feedwater  or  one  stream in  and  splitting  it  into  two  streams  out, more  common  like  chemical  engineering, process  engineering  and that  So  I  told  you  before. So  most  of  these,  these  are,  I  would  say, like  elemental  to  mechanical  engineering. So  turbines,  nozzles. One  of  the  thermodynamic  projects  focus  on  in the  nozzle  as  a  problem  regenerative  cooling. So  how  do  you  actually  save a  nozzle  from,  like,  blowing  up? You  have  a  flame  that's at  an  insane  temperature? How  do  you  keep  that  nozzle stable  during  that  time? Heat  exchangers,  and  then  also  compressors. We'll  work  on  compressors  today. This,  I  found  to  be  kind of  a  bit  instructive. So  when  we're  dealing  you  know, with  the  energy  of  a  non  flowing  fluid. So  we're  talking  about,  you  know, energy  being  transferred  to  and  from, like,  a  non  flowing  fluid, internal  kinetic  potential. And  again,  once  we  have  flow, we  have  flow  energy  that's  coming  with  it. And  again,  just  to reiterate  that  we  use  the  P, the  U  plus  the  PV  as  a  matter  of sort  of  convenience  when  working  with  it, 'cause  we're  going  to  do  it  a  lot. Um  Again, most  things  are  sort  of  one  dimensional. So  again, in  the  problem  we're  going  to  look  at  here, we're  going  to  have  a  stream  coming  in  and a  stream  coming  out. We're  not  going  to  look into  the  particulars  of  X, the  Y  and  the  z,  you  know,  directions. And  the  energy  carried  by these  streams  by  and large  are  going  to  be  done  in  rate  notation. So  when  we  deal  with  flows  and  fluids  and  you see  in  fluid  mechanics for  those  that  have  done  it, you  know,  you  don't  talk  about  mass. You  talk  about  mass  flow  rate. So  dot  with  it there  and  the  energy  that  it carries  is  then  E  dot. So  e  dot  M  dot  enthalp  velocity squared  G  Z.  Yeah. This  is  another  important  difference  between, like, the  control  volumes  that  were closed  versus  the  open  ones, as  the  volumes  don't  change  here. Right?  There's  no  boundary  work,  right? You  don't  have,  like,  you know,  the  PDV,  right? Where,  like,  the  piston  is  moving,  right? That  volume  basically  stays  the, you  know,  the  same  with  it.  All  right. Yeah.  And  as  a  general  rule,  then, a  lot  of  times  we're  interested in  either  how  this  fluid  flows and  causes  something  to  turn or  the  other  way  around, you're  bringing  it  in,  something's  turning, and  you're  compressing,  or  making  it  move. And  the  only  ways  you're  transferring work,  you  know, from  these  kind  of  simple systems  is  the  shaft  work  or the  the  electrical  work,  right?  Cool. So  that's  blah,  blah,  blah,  blah. I'm  going  to  go  through  this  example  here. If  you  want  to  follow  a  lawn  on the  Jupiter  notebook  and  see how  I  do  it,  it's  going  to  be  there. After  we're  done  with  this, I'm  going  to  throw  it  over  to  you, and  you're  going  to  do  a  version  of  this then  with  the  turbine. Are  there  any  questions  before  I  get  started? You're  all  doing  brilliantly  on  this  Friday. Cool.  Alright.  So  here's  our  problem. Our  problem  is,  we're looking  at  a  compressor. So  what's  a  compressor  Compresses. Alright.  It's  a  compressed  air. So  you  have  a  stream  that's  coming  in  here. You  have  some  work  right  being transferred  into  here  through  the  shaft, which  is  then  compressing  the  gas. And  then  you  have  the  outlet,  right? So  if  we  look  at  the  states, so  if  I  find  state  one  is  the  inlet, and  State  two  is  the  outlet,  right? We  have  a  pressure  of  100  KPA at  the  inlet,  you  know, 290  Kelvin,  and  at  the  outlet, a  much  higher  pressure  and a  much  higher  temperature. This  is  not  an  adiabatic  system. So  here  you  have  losses. M  adiabatic  is  when  we don't  have  heat  transfer  to  or  from. Here  you  have  some  heat  losses out  of  the  system, and  then  that's  the  mass  flow  rate  of  air. So  the  working  fluid  here  is  then  air. So  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the air  entering  into  the  system is  the  0.02  kilograms/second. And  the  question  we  want  to  know  is  that, so  these  are  the  conditions, let's  say  provided  to us  that  we  want  to  achieve. What's  the  necessary  amount  of  work  or power  that  we  need  to  transfer into  the  system  to  realize  that. All  right.  So  we  start  as  usual. So  we've  already  defined,  we're already  sort  of  given  the  state, so  we  can  proceed  now  with, you  know,  reading  our  conservation  of  energy. So  the  rate  of  change of  energy  within  this  control  volume  here. So  the  red  box, a  D  E,  si  system, DT  is  equal  to the  rate  of  energy  that  we  transfer  in minus  the  rate  of energy  that  we  transfer  out.  U We're  assuming  that  this  is  operating under  steady  state  conditions, so  our  d  dt  is  zero. So  what  does  this  imply? It  implies  that  the  t  one, which  enters  is  equal  to  the  m  two, which  exits,  which  we're  just  going to  write  as  m  dot, as  it's  given  to  us  as  the 0.02  kilograms  a  second. And  the  second  thing  is  that  our  e  dot  n is  going  to  be  equal  to  r  t.  Right? So  we're  going  to  expand  the  e  dot n  and  the  e  dot  out  terms. So  the  We  can  have  work. We're  going  to  have  work  that's transferred  in. We're  going  to  have heat  that's  transferred  in. We  can  have  the  fluid stream,  obviously  coming  in, carrying  in  some  entop  plus  velocity. I'm  going  to  write  that  as  W  W squared  n  divided  by two  plus  the  acceleration  due  to gravity  g  times  z. This  is  where  we're  talking  about  in  and  out. And  that  has  to  be  equal  to  what's  exiting. So  that's  going  to  be  again, the  same  thing  W  plus  Q  dot  plus  m  dot. And  again,  I'm  writing  m  dot  as  m  dot because  of  they're  equal  here. And  that's  going  to  then  be  times your  H,  enthalpy, plus  velocity  squared  out, divided  by  two  plus  g  z  two. Or  ZN,  I  apologize. Z.  All  right. Um  We're  not  giving  any  details  as  to whether  or  not  the  kinetic  energy  or the  potential  energy  terms are  important  terms. So,  I  mean, What  we're  going  to  say  then  is  that essentially  that  the  ZN is  probably  approximately  equal  to the  Z  out  and that  the  velocity  that's  coming  in  and  out, we're  going  to  say  is approximately  equal  to  what's  coming  out. In  practice,  what  you'll  see  when you  analyze  a  lot  of  these  systems is  another  way  to  justify  sort  of neglecting  the  WN  and  the  W  is  to  compare, you  know,  you  can  compare Let's  say,  let's  say,  in  this  case, H  N,  you  know, versus  W  squared  n  divided  by  two. And  in  a  lot  of  cases, this  term  is,  like,  vanishingly  small,  right? But  that's  an  easy  thing  to  check. So  if  you're  ever  given  a  velocity, you  know,  they're  at  the  inlet  or  the  outlet, or  The  way  that  you  can  get  this  to  is you'll  have  details  about  the  diameter of  that  pipe  coming  in. If  I  know  the  pressure  in  the  temperature, I'll  know  the  specific,  you  know,  volume. And  so  knowing  the  specific  volume, knowing  the  mass  flow  rate, knowing  the  geometry  of  the  pipe, you  can  also  determine  what  the  velocity  is, and  you  could  do  a  checkout after  the  fact  and  say,  Okay, is  this  one  much  smaller  than  that  one. Alright?  Good. We  can  cancel  some  terms. So  we  do  not  have  any  heat. We  do  have  work  being transferred  in,  that's  shown  there. We  don't  have  heat  being  transferred  in. Based  on  these  assumptions  here, we're  going  to  get  rid  of this  and  get  rid  of  that. We  don't  have  any  work  being  transferred  out. We  do  have  heat  being  transferred  out. And  again,  we're  gonna  dump the  kinetic  in  the  potential  energy  terms. There. Alright. Yes,  please. Where  did  you  get  the  H  plus  W  two  plus? Sure. I  mean,  in  short  math. But  the  point  is  that, so  we  draw  this  control  volume,  right? This  is  very  important,  right? So  you  have  your  control  volume  here. So  far,  what  you've  been  comfortable  with  is transferring  energy  through  work and  through  heat,  right? So  work  we  were  doing,  right? We  were  like,  having  a  piston, you  know,  compressing  or  expanding. We  had  an  electrical  wire  in  there. We  did  that,  heat,  easy. You  know,  you  transfer  heat. Now  what  we've  done  is  we've  opened  it  up. We're  saying  now  we  can  have  mass  that moves  into  this  control  volume.  All  right? Now,  before  I  write  about  formulas, you  can  have  some  experience. You  can  say,  Okay, I  have  some  mass  that's  coming  in. If  I'm  bringing  mass  in,  what I'm  speaking  about  is  a  fluid. So  water  air,  I'm  bringing  it  in. So  if  I  bring  in  a  fluid, right,  you  can  think  that,  a  fluid You  know,  certainly  should  be able  to  carry  some  energy,  right? I  take  a  rock,  and  I  throw  it  at  the  wall. We  talk  about  kinetic  energy. Fluid  has  the  same  thing.  Of  a  velocity. So  you  can  expect  there  should  be  maybe, like,  you  know,  kinetic  energy, one  half  M  V  squared, for  a  fluid,  we're  going  to  speak about  the  mass,  right? But  that's  going  to  be  the  mass  flow  rate. And  then  that's  going  to  be times  V  squared,  right? So  you  still  have  the  one  half  M  V  squared, but  we're  just  going  to  call  it  like the  M  dot  instead  of  M.  So  you  got  that. With  the  fluid  as  well,  you  can expect  also,  like,  with  a  rock,  right? If  I  bring  it  up  to  some  height, and  I  start  at  a  height, and  then  I  finish  at  another  height, there's  a  change  in  potential  energy,  right? So  if  I  had something  started  at  a  high  height here  with  mass  and I  finished  at  a  lower  height  here, there's  a  change  in potential  energy  through  that. So  that's  the  G  Z  part  of  it,  right? The  mm.gz  part  of  it. And  the  final  thing  is  that  for  anyone  who, you  know,  if  you  take  showers, as  I  did  this  morning, you,  fluids  can  carry, you  know,  they  can  be  hot,  right? They  can  have  an  internal  energy,  right? They  can  be  hot, and  they  can  carry  that  into  the  system. And  they  might  come  out  colder. Or  they  might  enter  colder, gain  I  don't  know,  sounds  not  in  there, but  so  you  have,  you  know, some  something  that's  coming  in  holder, maybe  you're  transferring  heat in  like  a  water  heater, and  then  it's  coming  out  hotter,  right? So  you  can  do  the  transfer  to  it, but  can  also  carry  in. It  could  be  hot, carried  in,  and  then  and  leave. So  each  of  those  terms,  right, the  internal  energy,  kinetic  energy, potential  energy  are  represented  here. And  I  would  say  at  the  risk  of  confusing  you. We've  already  done  this,  right? You've  done  the  Delta  U,  the  Delta  KE, the  Delta  PE  for  the  overall  control  volume. What  I'm  simply  telling  you  here  is that  with  having  an  open  system, each  of  those  mass  streams  can also  carry  an  internal  energy, a  kinetic  energy  and  a potential  energy  with  it. All  right?  Name  and  question. So  Z,  everything  is  relative. Alright,  as  Einstein  told  us,  right? So,  Anyone  ever  see  that  YouTube? There's,  like,  a  very  horrible  old. So,  the  point  is that  it  is,  of  course,  relative. If  I  have  the  same  height  here  as  here, there's  no  change  in  potential  energy. So,  you  know,  when  I'm  writing  here, I'm  talking  about  the  ZN  and  the  Z  out. It's  gonna  be  the  difference  between  them. And  this  is  also  what  I  was  before. Next  question.  Name  and  question. Parker. I  mean,  you  can  calculate  it. If  you  know,  if  you want  to  please  yourself,  you  can  go. You  can  like  write  it. I  mean,  for  a  lot  of  problems, it's  it  is  negligible. You  can  think  about  some  cases  where the  exhaust  is  extremely  high  speed, you  know,  there,  think  like  a  nozzle. You  know, so  the  whole  purpose  of  a  nozzle  is  like, put  a  bunch  of  energy  in, and  I  just  go,  right?  Gas  and  go. There  you  probably  can't  get  rid  of  it. Or  if  you  do,  you  should  not  have  a  job, 'cause,  you  know,  it's  a  bad  nozzle,  right? You  think  of  another  line  of  work. So  there  are  cases, but  for  a  lot  of  the  ones  that  we  solve, we  started  to  neglect  the  potential in  kinetic  energy  because it's  the  thermal  terms, the  internal  energies  are the  flow  works  that  dominate. Okay?  Yes,  please. So  a  lot  of  times  for  now, I'm  I'm  gonna  like  tell  you. And  then  you're  gonna  gain  intuition. So  for  now,  I  just  tell  you  at  steady  state, and  a  lot  of  them  do  operate  at  steady  state. You  know,  get  an  airplane. I've  got  a  turbine. That  thing  had  better  be steady  state  for  the  9  hours. I'm  in  that  thing,  right? You're  gonna  be  freaking  out. So  yeah,  there's  a  lot  of  them that  are  like  that  are compressor  is  the  same, right,  probably  gonna  run  for  a  long  time. You  know,  they're  at  those  steady  conditions. Those  are  most  relevant.  Yeah,  but we  will  get  into  transient  cases. We  will  analyze  some  transit  cases. Maybe  I  circle  to the  back  and  then  come  to  the  front. Next  question  on  this  side  of  the  room. Self.  Yeah,  because  in  this  system, we're  only  doing  work  in,  right? We're  only  transferring  the  purpose  of  this is  we  want  to  compress  the  air,  right? We  want  to  increase  the  pressure  on  the  air. So  we  transfer  work  in  to  take gas  at  some  state  here and  compress  it  to  here. So  we  don't  have  workout, we  have  work  that's  in. And  this  work  in  that  I'm  talking about  is  the  shaft  work,  right? I'm  talking  about  shaft  work in  as  I've  drawn  it. And  that's  also  how  I'm  writing  in  here. Shaft  work,  because  I've combined  the  flow  work  with  the  enthalpies. Next  question.  Yes,  please. Right  here. No,  they're  similar.  They're  comparable. I'm  saying  that  one  is  not appreciably  larger  than  another  one. Right? We're  talking  about  relative,  like  the  rock. If  it  doesn't  fall  from a  very  high  height  down, there  wasn't  a  big  change  in  energy. What  I'm  saying  here  in  this  system  is  that the  biggest  change  in  energy is  not  due  to  potential  energy  difference. It's  not  due  to  kinetic  energy  difference. I'm  claiming  that  it's  due  to  internal energy  and  flow  work  differences. So  what  I'm  also going  to  say  right  now  is  just  bear  with  me. I'm  gonna  cancel  out  KE  and  PE  like  a  ton, and  there  will  be  a  point where  I  will  introduce  it  to  you, and  you'll  say,  Oh, so  that's  why  we  need  that. Okay. Yeah,  just  make  it  clear.  I'm  just  doing  this now  because  I  don't have  good  handwriting,  right? And  if  I  write  Vs,  historically students  have  been  confused. So  I  had  to  add  an  extra  V  double  V,  right? Cool.  These  are  good  questions. Yes.  So  now  we  have, we  have  our  energy  equation, and  conservation  of  energy  here, and  we've  simplified  it. Is  my  iPad  going  to  open?  Okay. And  so  if  we  rearrange, so  we  can  solve  for  the  term  which  we  want, which  is  the  WN,  W  dot. So  the  shaft  work  is  equal  to,  right, Q  plus  m  dot times  minus  n,  is  that  right? Yes.  Um  Plus  our  formula. Rats,  you  have  it. We  just  got  to  work  out  some  details  here. So  the  first  is  with  the  Q  dot  out, cause  we're  only  given  little  Q  dot,  right? So  we're  given  the  transfer on  a  per  mass  basis. So  the  little  Q. So  the  way  that  we  get  that  into a  capital  Q  dot  is  we  take  the  little  Q  out, and  we  multiply  it  by  M  dot. Alright?  So  that  t  that  takes  care  of  that. And  we  need  to  determine We  have  our  H  dot  out  and  our  h.in  here. And  what  I'm  going  to  do  for  this. Hold  on.  Is  I'm  going  to  pull. I  don't  generally  substitute  the  values  here, but  I'm  going  to  pull  this  Oh,  wait. Could  I  have  clicked  on  that? Okay.  Let's  try. I  like,  Jeopardy,  Yes. So  right  now  we're  going  to  roll out  what's  called  the  workbook. So  what  you're  going  to  be  able  to  do within  Prairie  Learn  and  Prairie  test, which  is  basically  the  same  thing  is  that you're  going  to  be  able  to open  up  a  workbook, that  workbook  is  a  Jupiter  notebook. How  that  Jupiter  notebook  will look  will  look  identical to  the  ones  that  I'm  adding now  to  Homework  four  and  Homework  five. So  some  of  the  homework  four, if  you  look  today, on  the  first  few  problems, you'll  be  able  to  launch  the  workspace  there, which  then  displays  like  this. Of  course,  it's  not  available. Why  would  it  be  available. And  yeah,  so  that's  the  point  there. Yeah.  So  and  I would  show  that  to  you  if  this  Here  we  go. Exactly.  And  so  the  point  is  for  for  air, you  could  go  with these  conditions  here,  right? And  you  could  look  up  the  All  right. So  with  these  conditions  here, you  have  enough  information. You  could  go  and  you  could  look  up  the  H one  and  the  H  two,  right? So  you  have  a  special  table  in the  back  of  your  books.  You  can  do  it. You  can  also  look  at  this  and  run  this. Again,  at  the  risk  of being  confusing, but  I  don't  think  that  it  is. So  air  is  a  different  fluid  than  water. So  naturally,  there's  going  to  be a  different  database  that  you  draw  from. That  database  is  called  cool  Prop. Sounds  like  some  Silicon  Valley  speak. It  doesn't  matter,  but  you  install  that, and  this  is  basically  the  syntax. So  here,  you  say,  I  want  to  know  enthalpy. You  know,  so  I'll  give  you  temperature. So  T,  then  I  give  my  temperature,  P, I  give  pressure  to find  the  fluid,  the  fluid  is  air. And  whi,  you  have  enthalpy. So  this,  I  won't  be  doing. You  won't  be  using  this  one  on  the  exam cool  prop  is  like  It's  like,  huge. So  but  this  is  how  basically, you  could  work  with the  electronic  tables  of  air. But  you  also  have  the  air  property  tables  in the  back  of  your  book  for  problems  with  air? Yes.  We  wouldn't  need to  write  anything.  We  would  really So  I  called  it  a  calculator.  You  can  look. I'm  welcome  to  feedback, but  check  the  workbook  and  Homework four  and  five  today  or  next  week  or  whatever, and  then  see  if  that  looks  sufficiently, like,  detailed  to  work with,  for  example,  an  exam. This  is  H  one.  So  this  is  the  H  one  here. So  according  to  this,  if  I  ran  it, this  H  is,  you  know,  300  Sorry? I  do  these  things  to  catch  you. Just  you're  on  it,  man.  So,  180  you  said? 92  90. My  man.  Alright.  Cool. So  yeah,  there's  your  enthalpy. Yes.  But  this  is  enthalpy  here, and  I'm  printing  entop  one  and  entop  two. And  what  you're  interested is  then  the  difference  between enthalpy  two  and  enthalpy one  times  the  mass  flow  rate. And  the  right  in  the  Q,  right? The  W  that  you  have  there. Okay?  Yes,  please. Tables.  Yeah,  you  will  also have  the  book  tables  as  well  given. Yes.  Yeah,  I'm  agnostic  on  it. But  what  I  want  you  to  do  is,  like, recognize  that  if  you  learn, it's  important  to  learn  the  hand  tool, but  a  power  tool,  you  can  work  much  faster. Got  that?  Okay.  Other  questions? Yeah.  Cool  Prop  is, like,  that  is,  like, Yeah,  you  can  do. Unfortunately,  we  haven't  implemented  that into  Prairie  learn  yet,  sadly. Okay. Cool.  So  that's  it.  And  at  the  end  of  it, if  you  substituted  those  numbers, you  saw  it  there  on  the  Jupiter  Hub, but  the  numbers  that  I  have  here  were then  which  I  have to  double  check  as  Jessie  pointed  out, maybe  I  had  a  wrong  initial  one, but  what  I  had  here  in  my  notes was  then  62,  eight, nine  s  per  kilogram, or  as  we  normally  would  do  at 6.289  kilos  per  kilogram,  right? Do  you  feel  sufficiently  prepared  in a  group  to  solve  this? Groaning,  lots  of  groaning. So  here's  what  I  will  do. This  will  be  an  exercise. You  can  go  here  and  launch  this. And  this  has  already  a  bunch  of the  parameters  and  the  steps  put  in, and  also  the  enthalpies. So  basically,  with  this  calculator  here, if  you  went  step  by  step  with  it, so  if  you  install  like  this, import,  give  the  M  dot, acceleration  due  to  gravity, pressures,  velocity? I'm  making  you  use  your  imagination. That  wasn't  good  for  you. Okay.  So  if  you  go  here  and  and  you look  through  this,  so  you  install, you  import,  you  have  the  different initial  and  final  inlet and  outlet  conditions  here. You  define  the  class,  right? So  remember,  this  is  the  class  at  that  state. Water  Underscore  one  has all  the  information  at  the  entrance. Water  Underscore  two  has all  the  information  at  the  exit. If  you  go  that  S, you  have  ventur  p  dot  enthalpy  dot V  specific  volume  dot  internal  energy, and  the  same  you  know,  for  that. And  here  you  have this  as  the  output  converted into  enthalpy  jules  per  kilogram, I  am  a  psycho  when  it  comes to  notation  on  variables  in  writing, it  will  serve  you  well  in life  if  you  are  also this  crazy about  the  writing  and  the  notation. It  will  pay  dividends  if  you  are disciplined  and  don't  write.  I  like  H  one. You  don't  know.  I  mix  between  Jules  and kilogram  and  then  hours  later,  yeah. So  Anyways,  if  you  can  launch  that from  That's much  more  detailed  than  of  course, what  I'd  give  you  on  an  exam. But  one  of  the  people  in  your  group could  open  that  and  use that  as  the  calculator to  determine,  you  know, for  example,  say, the  enthalpies  or  whatever within  your  formula,  okay? Are  there  any  questions before  we  get  started? Okay.  If  not,  Yes,  please. Oh,  this  should  be  I'm  sorry. A,  you're  right.  No,  no,  no,  that's  right. This  is  a  rate  term. And  that's  a  Capital  W.  This should  be  I'm  sorry. All  right?  This  is  Joules  per  second, Kilo  joules  per  second, which  is  which  unit? There  you  go.  Kilowatt.  Okay.  Thank  you for  catching  that.  Sorry. Okay,  so  10  minutes, Form  groups  of  four,  really  form  groups. You  know,  have  the  recorder  and  all  of  that. I'm  going  to  launch  the  poll  right  now, okay?  Bear  with  me. Okay,  the  polls  should  be  active. So  let  me  know  if  it's  the  wrong  one. Can  my  favorite  group here  tell  me  if  I  did  it  right? Yeah.  I  just  want  to  see  if  it's  the  right. Okay.  Cool.  All  right.  That's  great. Um  Sorry. So  just  wondering  what  tables would  you  use  to  get pressure  So  this  is important  and  it  takes  some  practice. So  the  point  is  that  when  you  think about  water,  right?  This  is  steam. So  water  at  2:20  times  atmospheric pressure  hazard to  guess,  what  state  would  you  say? Point  of  water  here.  What's  the  temperature of  the  boiling  water  here? About  100,  right?  100  degrees  Celsius. So  that's  400.  Pressure  is  higher, but  it's  400  degrees  Celsius. Do  you  think  it's  a  vapor? Yeah. So  it's  what  we  call  we go  to  the  superheated  Apatable. You'd  go  to  the  pressure, which  is  two  megapat. Super  heated  is  a  A  six  Superheated is  A  six,  I  think,  right? A  five.  So  let's saturated.  You  got  to  keep  going. Super  heated.  Now,  super  heat, you  can  go  to  two  megapa  pressure. So  you  read  this  as you  look  at  the  top  here,  here. Don't  go  too  far.  It  says. And  then  you  can  read  at the  corresponding  temperature, all  the  properties  that  are  by  it. Ideal  guests, that's  a  great  question. Is  internal  energy  depend  on? Say  it  again.  32k. I  mean  property. What  are  your  thermomic  properties? The  ones  that  we  talk  about  usually. Yeah,  specific  volume. Internal  energy,  what  does  it  depend  on? Doesn't  depend  on  pressure. Okay.  You're  solo  here. Amazing.  Is  this  in  Mega? Yeah.  At  you. You  do  the  work  of  four  men  or  women. That's  great.  Yeah. Okay. Is  this  helpful  to  do  it  in  this  way  or  no? Yeah.  Yeah.  And  your  name? Okay. Yes.  Sorry.  No,  you're  great. You're  asking  good  questions. Sorry.  I  know  you've  already  explained  this. Sure.  I  still  don't  exactly quite  get  how  it's  possible  to have  work  going  in and  have  nothing  going  out.  Like  in  the  equ. Let  me  ask  you  this.  So  think  about  a  fan. H.  What  does  a  fan  do?  W  air.  Yeah. So  what  comes  into  the  fan?  Is  the  air moving  fast  when  it  comes  into  the  fan, or  is  it  kind  of,  like  still? It's  very  still  still. So  have  you  have  still  air  coming  in. And  then  you  have  this  thing  spinning, and  you  have  fast  air  coming  out,  right? So,  the  point  is  that  in  that  example, you  have  some  work  that's being  transferred  into  the  fan? Right?  So  that  work  that's  transferred  in  is basically  balanced  with  the  speed of  the  air  as  it's  leaving. And  it  leaves  with  basic  kinetic of  the  I  mean, even  though  work  and energy  are  both  energy  you. This  is  It  is like  the  energy  equivalent  of accounts  that  energy  is  transferred, you  know,  in  and  out  of  my  system, and  it  can  also  accumulate. You  know,  within  it,  with  the  accumulation. How  does  it  enter?  And  how  does  it  leave? What  form  does  it  enter in  and  what  form  does  it  leave? I  think  sake  of equating  work  with  every  single  kind  of. But  those  are  transfer  mechanisms. A  in  the  same  equation. But  yeah,  like  in  this  case, you  separate  this  entire  energy  in. Yeah,  these  different  forms. Yeah,  the  transfer,  the  way  that we  transfer.  I  want  to  make  that  clear,  too. Here  you  know  we're  transferring  it  in and  out  in  these  different  ways. You'll  see.  Okay.  What  time  it  makes sense?  But  good  questions. Another  one  man  show  up  here? Good.  Sure. But  it's  in  which  problem  is  this  for? This  one  here? Yeah,  so  just  be  careful with  the  dot  notation,  right? So  the  units  of  this,  I  have  this. And  I  made  the  same  mistake,  right? With  the  killers.  When  it  should  be. Yeah.  So  I  think  you  missed one  over  second  term. And  which  terms  did  you  keep? You  kept  them  all? I  just  es.  Basically. I  think  it's  the  right  thing. The  number  I'm  not  so  sure  about, but  I  think  that  what  I  see  there seemingly  at  first  glance looks  like  the  right  way. Good.  Sure.  Mm.  Is  a  difficult  thing. There's  one  of  me. It's  easier  to  remember. There's  160  of  you  for  a  moon. Okay.  So  we're  looking at  everything  there  is  to  council. I'm  assuming  that  there  is a  potential  When  you assume  there's  no,  potential  difference? Well,  I'm  saying  here,  I  mean, do  you  need  to  neglect  anything? I  don't  think  you  do.  Then  don't. If  you're  given  the  values,  then  let  it. I  mean,  plug  and  chug  and  But  then  it  might be  useful  or  instructive  to  actually compare  some  of  those  terms  to  each  other, just  so  that  you  can  see  if  I  was  lying this  morning  or  not,  neglect. I  got  a  negative  number.  Is  that  great? Oh.  So  I  think  that  there's  No, no,  so  this  is  audibat. There's  no  Qs  in  the  audiobatic  system, and  it's  only  W. We'll  see.  We'll  discuss  it.  There's  no  WN. There's  no.  There's  a  high  pressure  steam that  comes  in,  and then  that's  what  makes  it  work. This  is  the  principle  of  most  power  plants. Actually,  this  is  how  they  work. It  steam.  Super  heated.  Yes. Okay,  that's  10  minutes. Let's  get  those  answers in  if  you  don't  have  them  already. I  will  present.  Alright. All  right,  Let's  get  it  to  20,  and then  I'll  start  presenting. Cool.  I  remember  this. I  can't  see  that. But  it's  the  long  one,  right? So  the  formula  you  selected the  majority  is  this,  right? Yeah.  I  don't  know. On  my  normal  screen,  I  can  read  that  on  here. It's  comically  small. So  for  the  one  that  was  third, so  the  third  one  that's  there, that's  also  you  know, the  conservation  of  energy  formula. So  in  kindergarten,  they'd  be like  ten,  nine,  eight. I  know  for  my  daughter. So  why  did  the  majority  of  you  pick, well,  we  know  why  you  didn't  pick  this. But  why  for maybe  a  group  who  has  selected  this  one, why  didn't  you  select  that  term, if  you  care  to  share? If  you  can  read  it? Or  why  did  you  select  the  term  that  you  did? It's  not  in  a  rate.  Rate,  and  it doesn't  carry  the  mass  flow  with  it. Yeah.  Yeah. So  these  are  all  very  Yeah, these  are  very  good,  very  good. Exactly.  You  don't  have  This  is  not accounting  for  the  flow  work,  right? The  energy  that  can  be  introduced  through a  flowing  fluid  coming  into  the  system, while  that  one  can. Wonderful.  It's  like  battleship. Okay.  O. Okay,  so  I'm  not  going  to  focus. I'm  not  going  to  focus  on  this, right  as  we  discussed  it,  it's  not  the  rate. Here,  we  won't  focus  on this  because  it's  the  W  total,  right? This  includes  the  flow  work  in  it, which  is  not  desirable. So  we're  going  to  focus  on  this  equation. Within  this  equation,  what  would  be great  is  maybe  from  this  side  of  the  room, one  of  the  groups  could  share the  terms  that  they  felt  they could  neglect  since  we've apparently  clicked  them  all, and  they're  growing. This  is  like  Yeah.  Awesome. Jesse,  I  want  to  come  back  to  you, but  I  want  to  say  maybe  name.  Austin. Austin.  I  felt. And  why  do  you  neglect  the  term? Yeah. That's  great.  So  Atiba  great. So  you  knocked  the  cues  out  with  that. What  was  another  maybe  we'll come  back  to  the  site  to  Jesse  then. Oh,  sorry,  man.  I  apologize. I'm  Okay. Was  there  another  term  we  felt? Yes.  WN? Yes. Exactly. So  you  have  work  being  transferred  out, but  you  don't  have  work  being  transferred  in. That's  great. Yes.  Yes.  That's  also  great. Yeah,  so  we  have  a  steady  state  operation so  that  takes  care  of  the  DEDT. I  don't  see  anything  anymore  on  this. It's  like  windows. You  used  to  open  a  ton  of  windows, and  then  it  would  like  crash  itself. This  is  a  MAC,  though. Exactly.  And  so  then  you  have  only  the  W.  We don't  have  the  W  in. And  I  mean, I  saw  a  lot  of  clicks  on  there  so  far with  neglecting  the  potential  energy and  also  on  the  kinetic  energy. I  would  accept  that  because I  basically  told  you  to  neglect  it. But  I  would  say  in  an  exam, if  I'm  giving  you  the  velocities and  I'm  giving  you  the  height  differences, you  might  as  well  just throw  it  into  the  formula. It's  an  interesting  exercise  for you  to  do  maybe  today,  you  know, or  after  the  Cal  game  tomorrow, when  they  go  to  Callahasse  and  win. You  could  calculate the  difference  then  between the  kinetic  and  potential  energy  terms against  enthalpy, just  to  see  with  it,  okay? Alright.  So  now  we  come  to  power. We  We  definitely  have a  majority  on  five  megawatt, a  decent  number  with  50. And  so  this  isn't something  that's  going  to  come out  easily  in  discussion, but  you  need  to  pay  attention  to  this,  right? Let  me  say  it  this  way. Does  anyone  have  a  thought  as  to why  we  could  have this  bimodal  distribution  of a  five  and  a  50?  Sure. Say  it  again? Yeah,  specifically,  which  ones? Where  do  you  get  the  units  wrong? Yes.  So  yeah,  so  these here  have  the  units  of  jewels,  right? And  this  one,  if  you  get  it  from your  book  or  from the  tables,  have  what  units? Yeah. Exactly.  And  so  what  will  happen is  if  you  keep this  in  kilojoule  per  kilogram, but  you  go  on  and  you keep  these  in  joule  per  kilogram. These  are  going  to  be,  right, like  three  orders  of magnitude  bigger  relative to  this  term  than  they  should  be, and  you'll  end  up  dominating  your  answer. So  it's  super  important, like  when  you  work  with  this  equation here  to  put  things  into  SI  units,  right? It's  very  important  when you  want  to  work  with all  the  terms  to  stay  in  the  SI  units  there. It's  a  very  common  mistake  that's made  between  them,  okay? Why  do  we  as  engineers  write  kilo  joules per  kilogram  and  not  joules  per  kilogram? I  don't  know. I  didn't  do  it.  I  didn't  write  the  book. It  is  what  it  is. So,  that's  where  this  can  happen. Okay. Alright.  Yeah,  so  anyways,  that's  with  that. The  point,  though,  is,  you  know, we've  now  discussed  in  the  correct  forma to  select  what  terms  to  neglect? When  you  put  it  all  together  and  you  solve, the  final  answer  would  actually be  5  megawatts  there. Okay?  Yes,  please.  I  do. If  you  it's  like  4.99  here. I  will  read  it.  My  answer  is  W  dot  Out. Shaft  work  Out  is  four,  nine,  97,  nine, nine,  five  Watts,  which  is, for  me,  then  effectively  5  megawatts. Good. Okay,  so  what  we're  gonna  do next  time  is  we're  going  to  do  more  of  this. We're  going  to  do  more  of  these  systems. We're  going  to  apply  this same  formula  over  and over  and  over  and over  again  to  different  systems,  okay? Thank  you.  Have  a  good  weekend. Ca
