Just How  do  you  do  this? I All  right. I  got  210.  I'm  going  to  get  started. So  today,  we're  continuing with  our  second  law. So  we're  going  to  cover some  aspects  and  refrigeration, some  power  plants,  and then  get  into  more  into the  Carne  Karno  cycle, which  we  started  last  time. Okay. Yeah,  so  this  is how  the  Karno  cycle  looks  like. Recall  we  have  heat  transferred  in a  system  from  high  temperature  isothermally. At  the  same  time,  we have  a  work  transfer  out  process. Then  we  have  an  adiabatic  expansion  process, which  drops  our  temperature  from  high  to  low. We  have  heat  transferred  out  of the  system  to  a  low  temperature  reservoir, TL  And  then  at the  same  time,  we're  compressing, and  then  we  have  adiabatic  compression, which  takes  us  from  a  low  temperature to  the  high  temperature,  right? But  the  key  attribute  of  this  is  that  one, that  we  operate  between  these two  temperatures  and  that  all  of the  work  transfer  processes are  reversible,  reversible,  okay? And  that's  going  to  be  the  basis of  next  week  when  we introduce  our  next  character  entropy, all  right?  You  can  reverse  it. So  I  mentioned  this  also  at the  end  of  the  last  time  is  that  if  you run  it  in  reverse,  okay, So  the  thermal  engines  go  clockwise, the  heat  pumps  go  counterclockwise. What  you're  going  to  do  then  is you're  just  going  to  pump  heat  from the  low  temperature  reservoir  and  put  it into  the  high  temperature,  right? So  on  an  application  on a  cold  winter  day,  right, that  would  be  your  house,  okay? Or  on  a  hot  day,  right? That's  the  inside  of  your  fridge,  okay? But  also,  remember, an  attribute  of  the  cycle  is  that  the  network that  we  transfer  out  to  W  net  out  is equal  to  the  net  heat  we  transfer  in. And  the  reason  for  that  is that  we  end  up  where  we  start,  right? And  if  we  end  up  where  we  start, that's  a  property,  okay?  It's  a  property. So  it  means  that,  from  the  first  law,  right? So  if  my  property  is my  internal  energy  throughout that  whole  thing,  from  the  first  law, we  know  that  if the  change  in  the  internal  energy at  this  point  is  then  zero, right,  the  heat  that  we  put in  must  be  equal to  the  work  that  we  take  out,  right? Because  the  first  law  is  Delta  U is  basically  a  Q  minus  W,  okay? Good,  super. Alright,  let's  talk  about  power  plants. All  right. So  what  is  a typical  thermoelectric  power  plant  look  like? This  is  still,  like  I  said,  a  majority  of most  energy  electricity  is produced  in  this  way. So  what  you  have  here  to start  with  between  States  one, let's  say  States  one and  State's  two  is  you  have  a  pump,  okay? And  with  this  pump,  you're putting  some  work  transferred  in. All  right.  This  then  enters into  what's  called  a  boiler,  okay? So  you  have  a  boiler  here. All  right.  All  right. This  is  your  cue,  basically  your  q.in, which  is  which  is  here  out  of  this  boiler. Okay.  This  thing  goes  into  into  a  turbine. Okay.  This  basically  is  your  turbine  in. And  from  here,  we  have basically  our  W  dot  out, and  then  out  of  the  end  of  this  turbine, this  then  goes  into  another  heat  exchanger, which  we  term  as  a  condenser. And  then  here's  where  you  have your  Q  dot  out, and  this  whole  thing  starts  again. I  have  states  one,  which is  here,  State  two  here, State  three  here,  and  then  state  four, which  is  here.  Any  clarifications? Cool. Oh,  it  gets  better,  man.  Don't  worry. Alright.  So  this  is what  we're  talking  about  here. And  so  in  this  problem,  so this  is  a  problem  from  six. I  believe  I  have  617. The  question  is,  you  know, we'd  like  to determine  determine  what's  called the  efficiency the  thermal  efficiency  of  its  efficiency. So  it  is  the  Greek  letter  Ea. I  put  H  to  indicate  that it's  a  thermal  engine, and  I'd  like  to  know the  net  power  output,  okay? So  mathematically,  right, that's  basically  w.net  out,  okay, which  is  by  definition, equal  to  W  dot  out  minus  w.in. All  right?  We're  given  some  information. So  the  information  that  we're given  here  is  that  for  our  q.in, we're  told  that  it's transferred  in  at  a  rate  of 280  gigajoules  per  hour. Mm  hm.  We're  told that  we  have  a  Q  dot  out  here, which  is  equal  to  165. Gigajoules  per  hour. We're  also  told  that  there's  some  losses. So  for  example,  you  know, as  I'm  transferring,  you  know, let's  say,  hot  steam  into  the  turbine, I  could  have  thermal  losses  that  happen  here, and  that's  to  the  tune  of eight  gigajoules  per  hour  of  losses,  okay? This  we  don't  know. We  don't  know  how  much  work  is in.  So  what  do  we  do? Assume  steady.  Sure.  We  can  do  that. So  we  have  a  steady  do  we  assume,  right? So  we  assume,  right, that  we're  operating  under, let's  say,  a  steady  state  condition. So,  this  whole  thing  is  going. So  each  of  the  devices  are steady  flow  devices,  right? So,  write  a  pump,  a heat  exchanger,  a  turbine, another  heat  exchanger  in  a  loop,  okay? More  specifically,  what  do you  do  if  you  want  to determine  let's  start  with  this  one,  right? Because  this  is  essentially  a  bit  easier. What  piece  of  information that  I  give  you  about cycles  and  network  with  respect  to  heat? Okay.  All  right.  So  we  have  here, our.net  in,  is  equal  to  our  w.net  out,  right? And  that's  a  feature  of  a  cycle,  okay? That's  a  feature  of  a  cycle,  right? If  you  want  to  know  what this  basically  looked  like, try  to  draw  this  from  memory. But  this  type  of  cycle here  looks  something  like  this. Okay,  like  that,  and  the  point is,  it's  a  cycle. And  so  then  the  area  contained  within that  curve  is  the  net  workout, and  it  must  be  from  the  first  law equal  to  the  net  heat  in. How  can  we  define  the  net  heat in  based  on  this? What  would  you  do?  Okay,  so we've  drawn  control  volumes for  each  individual  elements,  right? You  can  also  draw  control  volume  for the  entire  power  plant,  right? So  if  I  draw  a  control  volume  for  the  entire, basically,  maybe  I'll  draw  like, you  know,  a  box  around  it,  so  I  have  this. So  my  flows  are,  right? I  have  a  Q  dot. In,  right?  I'll  have  a  Q  dot  out, which  I  know,  and  then  I  have a  Q  dot  loss,  okay? Basically,  let's  say,  like  a  Q  dot, you  know,  loss,  which  is  also  there,  okay? So  then  from  this,  right? What  we  can  say  is  that  our q.net  in  is  equal  to  what  comes  in,  right, q.in  minus  the  sum  of  Q  dot out  plus  Q  dot  loss,  okay? Our  q.in  is  what? It's  280  gigajoules  per  hour. Q  dot  out  is  165  gigajoules  per  hour, and  the  Q  dot  loss  is eight  gigajoules  per  hour.  Mm. So  if  I  do  that,  I  have  107. I  have  107  gigajoules  per  hour  is then  is  my  q.net. I,  okay,  which  by  definition  here  is also  equal  to  my  w.net  out, okay?  So  that  C. And  now  we  can  talk  about  efficiencies, okay?  So  efficiencies  here. So  to  the  first  part,  so  for, um,  For  the  efficiencies,  and  in  general, when  you're  thinking  about defining  figures  of  merit, you  take  the  ratio  of  the  thing  you  desire, and  you  divide  it  by the  thing  that  you  pay,  okay? So,  like,  you  know,  you  know,  okay. That's  all  I'm  going  to  say.  So,  all  right, so  basically  the  definition  of  this. So  the  thing  that  we  want  is the  net  power  output,  right? So  this  basically  is  defined  as  W  net, um,  divided  by  Q  in. I  I  wrote  it  in  rate  notation,  right? If  this  is  a  steady  system  and  it's  closed, right, the  M  dots  that would  be  in  here  would  go  away. It  could  also  just  be  little  W  net  and little  Q  in.  All  right. You'll  sometimes  see  this  written  as, um,  All  right,  no,  this  is  basically  fine. You  can  also  write  this  because  w.net  is equal  to  q.net,  right? I  could  also  write  Q  dot. This  is  net  out  q.net in  divided  by  q.in,  right? That's  another  way  that you  can  do  that,  right? And  so  if  we  substitute in  our  numbers,  so  what  do  I  have? I  have  107,  right? So  I  have  here  107  gigajoules  per  hour. And  then  what's  my  q.in? My  q.in  is  280  80  gigajoules  per  hour. What  is  that? Like,  yeah,  38. It's  basically  38%  efficiency. 38.  Let  me  write  that  better,  right?  38%. Okay?  And  this is  where  we're  going  now,  right? So  everything  we  did  in  part  five,  right, was  to  talk  about these  individual  elements,  right? With  the  heat  exchangers,  turbines, compressors  and  all  of  that. And  to  make  power  cycles and  heat  pumps  and  all  of  that, we  string  all  of  these  things into  series.  We  close  the  loop. We  call  it  a  cycle, and  we're  interested  in  things  like  that, the  work  in,  the  networking, the  net  heat  out,  like  that. This  is  a  very  easy  problem,  right? This  is  a  very  easy  problem because  all  I  did  at the  end  of  it  is  I  kind  of lumped  all  those  elements  together, and  then  I  just  said,  Look,  I  know  my  q.in, I  know  my  Q  dot  out, I  know  my  Q  dot  loss. But  actually,  a  lot  of what  we're  going  to  be  doing is  determining  these  properties  at  state  two, three,  four,  and  one,  okay? So  the  enthalpies,  multiply  those  by  dots, and  then  you  get  things  like  q.in, w  dot  out,  and  so  on  and  so  forth,  okay? All  right.  And  the  reason  why  I  can't give  that  to  you  next  is  to  do  this, I  need  to  give  you,  again, this  other  property  to  be able  to  analyze,  okay? Clear?  Great.  Grace.  I  do, do,  do.  All  right. Maybe  a  good  segue,  though, before  we  dive  into  some  refrigeration  is  to talk  for  a  second  about what  is  the  maximum  efficiency? So  I  said  before  that  the  Karnea  cycle  sets the  the  absolute  maximum  efficiency that's  attainable. I  just  told  you  that.  And  what we  can  do  is  we  can  actually define  what  that  efficiency would  be  and  what  it  depends  on. All  right. So  a  little  bit  of  math. 19th  century. All  right.  Good.  This  one sucks.  This  one  better. Okay,  that's  better.  All  right. Okay,  so  we  drew  with  Karno. Maybe  I  can  just  blank  this  out. Okay.  All  right, we  drew  with  Karno  last  time,  right? So  I  have  here  one  to  two,  let's  say. So  this  is  he transferred  out  in  compression,  two  to  three. I  have  some  adiabatic  compression, three  to  four  isothermal  expansion, and  then  four  to  one  adiabatic  expansion, right? So  these  are  work  transferred  in  processes, and  these  are  work  transferred  out. Along  this  line,  this  is an  isotherm  where  T  is  equal  to  TH, and  along  this  isotherm, we  have  T  equals  to  TC. So  I'm  going  to  call  it  for  um,  cold,  okay? So  TH  is  my  hot, and  then  TC  is  my  cold. The  book,  a  lot  of  times  I'll write  this  also  sometimes  as  TL. So  L  for  low  or  C,  um, for  cold,  we  only  have  one  word  for  hot, so  we  have  H,  all  right? So  that's  our  cycle,  okay? Um,  T,  do,  do, do,  do,  do,  do. All  right. And  in  this  cycle,  okay, when  we  transfer,  right, so  the  heat  that's  transferred here  is  in  from  right, so  we  have  Q  we  have,  like, a  a  Q  in  here  at  TH,  right? And  we  have  basically  a  Q  out  here, which  is  then  transferred then  into  the  cold  right  into  the  cold. Um  side,  right? So  let's  focus  for  a  second  on  and  again, while  we  transfer  this  heat  in, right,  we  have  the  work  transfer  process  out. While  we  transfer  the  heat  out, we  have  the  work  transfer  in. And  these  two  things  are  equal,  right? Remember  we  did  that  example  with  the  piston. I  put  that  amount  of  heat  in. And,  of  course,  because  it's  isothermal, right,  the  same  amount  of work  had  to  be  transferred  out,  right? So  let's  make  some  assumptions  about  this. We're  going  to  deal  with  an  ideal  gas. We  don't  need  to,  but  we will  because  it's  instructive. We'll  deal  with  an  ideal  gas. And  let's  say  that  we're  working the  work  transfer  work  transfer is  only  a  boundary  work,  okay? And  boundary  work  is  what? PdV.  You're  going  to  ace  the  quiz.  All  right. PdV  PdV  PDV  work  there, which  is  our  boundary  our  boundary  work. All  right. So  let's  focus  on  one,  two. So  and  I  can  write  W.  You  know, one,  two  is  equal  to. You  can  also  write  this  as  like  a  little  M. W  one,  two,  where  this  has units  of  joules  per  kilogram, so  I  can  have  it  like  that. Then  this  is  equal  to my  M  times  the  integral  from state  one  to  two  of  PD  V, where  V  is  then  little  V,  um,  there,  right? If  we're  dealing  with  an  ideal  gas,  right? So  we  have  PV. P  little  V  is  equal  to  RT. So  this  is  the  specific  gas  constant. This  would  depend  on  your  substance in  the  end  of  the  washout. But  for  now,  we  can  write  this as  just,  you  know, some  ideal  gas  that  has  a constant  R.  If  we  substitute  this  into  here, right,  what  we're  going  to  have  is  P is  equal  to  RT  divided  by  V, and  that's  going  to  go  into  here. So  then  my  if I  write  it  just  as  little  W  one, two,  So  if  I  just  focus  on  this, this  is  going  to  be  equal  to  then, the  integral  of  one  to  two, R  T  divided  by  V  dV,  right? And  this  is  going  to  produce a  natural  log,  right? It's  basically  going  to produce  a  natural  log. And  so  what  I'm  going  to  have is  why  is  it  a  natural  log? Because  R  is  a  constant  and  T  is a  constant  because  this  is an  isothermal  process. So  I  could  take  those  out, and  I  have  R  T, natural  log  of  little  V  two divided  by  a  little  V  one,  Allright?  Cool. All  right.  And  the  temperature. The  point  is  that  I didn't  declare  the  temperature. What  is  the  temperature  that  I'm transferring  the  heat  out  here  at? So  it's  an  isothermal  or  transfer  process. What's  the  temperature  of  one  to  two? TC,  right?  So  this  is  TC  here. If  this  is  a  compression  process is  V  two  going  to be  greater  than  or  less  than  V  one? So  what  is  the  sign  of  the  natural  log here  if  V  two  is  less  than  V  one? It's  negative,  okay?  So  then  this  W  one, two  would  be  a  negative,  okay? So  if  I  wanted  to  call  this  as,  for  example, W,  you  know,  let's  say  W  in, let's  say  one,  two,  right? This  would  be  equal  to  the  negative  of RTC  natural  log  of  V  two  divided  by  V  one, okay,  just  to  be  consistent. So  here  I  didn't say  anything  about  in  and  out. The  fact  that  I'm  writing  in here  now  and  applying  it  to  one,  two, I  have  to  put  the  negative  sign  because  of the  fact  that  that'll  be  negative. Okay,  that's  good.  TC. All  right,  it's  isothermal. So  isothermal  one  to  two. So  if  we  look  back  to  our  Delta  E  of the  control  volume  is  equal  to  E in  minus  E  out,  right? This  can  then  be  Delta  U, if  we  neglect  kinetic and  potential  energies,  right? This  would  then  be  Wn  plus  Q in  minus  W  out  plus  Q  out,  okay? So  it's  isothermal. What  does  that  mean  about  the  internal  energy here  for  an  ideal  gas? It's  constant.  It's  unchanged,  right? So  because  it's  isothermal  for this  process  of  one, two,  this  is  constant. Do  we  have  work  in? Yes.  Do  we  have  Q  in? No,  right? Do  we  have  W  out?  No,  right? But  we  do  have  Q  out. And  the  point  from  this  exercise  of  one, two  is  that  Q  out,  right? One,  two  is  then  equal  to  W  in,  right? One,  two,  okay?  So  we can  write  this  on  a  per  mass  basis. I  can  divide  both  sides  by  M, and  I  can  say  little  Q  out,  right? One,  two  is  equal  to little  W  in  one,  two,  right? And  so  what  does  it  mean  for  this? It  means  that  Q  out  one, two  is  equal  to  the  negative  of RTC  natural  log  of V  two  divided  by  V  one,  okay? And  that's  an  important  first  step. So  we  wrote  our  first  real formula  with  this,  okay? So  we  can  do the  same  thing  for  the  W  out,  right? It's  the  W  out.  Right  here, we  can  look  at  the  three  to  four. So  W  out  out  three,  four,  little  W, and  it's  then  equal  to  ideal  gas  constant, high  temperature  of  the reservoir  and  natural  log, little  V  four  divided  by  V  three. The  sign  of  this  is correct  because  the  specific  volume at  state  four  will  be  larger, right,  than  that  at  state  three. So  that  looks  that  all  looks  fine,  right? We  know  that  W  out  three, four  must  be  equal  to  Q  in  at 34  because  the  other  two  legs  that  we  have analyze  are  idiabatic  processes, or  you  can  go  through the  same  thing  that  I  just  said  now, which  is  that  it's  isothermal, and  you  can  follow  that  whole  step and  arrive  at  that  same  conclusion. All  right.  So  our  thermal  efficiency here  is  equal  to  what? So  what  do  we  desire? Okay,  we  desire  work. All  right.  I'll  carry  the  load  today,  right? So  we  carry  the  W  net  and  Qn. And  W  net  is  also  equal  to  Q  net,  right? Which  is  basically  Q  in  minus  Q out  divided  by  Q  in,  right? We're  getting  close.  All  right. We  have  formulas,  right? So  we  have  a  formula  for  our  Q  out. We  have  a  formula  for  our  Q  in,  all  right? And  so  I  guess  I  can  say  it  this  way. If  we  were  to  do  a  sum  of  all  the  Q, you  know,  these  are  just two  legs  because  one, four  and  two,  three  are  adiabatic, So  let's  say  like  this, our  Q  in  is  equal  to our  what  we  called  this  Q  in  three, four,  because  this,  like  I  said, two,  three,  and  41  are  diabatic. Our  Q  out  is  equal  to  what  we  had  there, which  was  our  Q  out  one,  two,  okay? And  so  if  we  substitute  those  formulas  in, what  we  would  have  then  for  our  Q  and three  Q  and  34  is R  T  H  natural  log of  V  four  divided  by  V  three  minus  our  Q, which  is  where  RTC, R  C  natural  log. I  think  I  have  natural  log  of. This  is  the  minus,  right? So  let  me  get  this  right. This  is  minus  a  minus. I  have  negative  R,  C  natural  log, of  V  two  divided  by  V  one, and  then  again,  divided  by  the  Q, which  is  your  R  TH, natural  log  V  four  divided  by  V  three,  okay? And  so  the  challenge  right  now  is  we need  to  deal  we'd  like  to have  V  two  and  V  one  to  be like  the  V  four  and  the  V  three. And  so  for  this,  what  we  can recall  is  that  this  is, right,  four  to  one  and two  to  three  are  adiabatic  processes,  okay? So  if  I  look  at  PV to  the  gamma  equal  to  C,  right? This  is  what  we  proved  before for  an  adiabatic  process. This  is  adiabatic,  adiabatic, you  know,  expansion  or  adiabatic  compression. And  so  we'll  be  so  that's  one  thing. To  be  able  to  do  this, we've  got  to  make  sort of  a  slight  transformation. So  I  can  write  if  I  go  PV  like  this, is  V  to  the  Gamma minus  one  is  equal  to  C,  right? So  basically,  I  pulled a  specific  volume  out  of  this. Now  I  have  Gamma  to  the  minus  one. Idel  gas  equation. This  is  nothing  but  Rt  N  times Gamma  minus  one  equals  to C.  Since  R  is  a  constant, TV  Gamma  minus  one is  equal  to  C  divided  by  R, or  we  could  call  this  as  like  C  one,  okay? All  right.  Um,  and now  we'll  apply  this  to these  two  legs  here,  all  right? Uh.  All  right. So  the  first  one, I  have  T  cold, V  two  Gamma  minus  one,  two,  right? So  that'll  bring  me  then  to  three. S  three,  which  is  H  V  three, Gamma  minus  one, and  then  we  can  do the  same  thing  the  other  way,  right? I  can  write  TC  at V  one  Gamma  minus  one,  which  is  here. And  then  that  must  be  H  and  V  four,  right? TH  and  V  four  Gamma  minus  one. All  right.  We're  almost  there. We're  almost  able  to  now relate  because  now  if I  divide  these  two  things, so  if  I  divide  this,  right, the  TCs  are  gone, the  Hs  are  gone. And  so  what  you'll  have  then  is  V two  divided  by  V  one  to  the  Gamma minus  one  is  then  equal  to  V three  divided  by  V four  to  the  Gamma  minus  one,  okay? And  the  Gamma  minus  ones  can  go  away. And  so  what  you'll  have then  is  now  what  we  saw, which  is  V  two  divided  by  V one  is  V  three  divided  by  V  four. So,  now  with  this, we  can  come  back  to  this  term  here. So  V  two  divided  by  V one  is  hold  on  a  second. This  is  the  negative.  Okay,  so  this  is an  important  part  that  I  have  to deal  with  here  before  I  do  the  substitution. I  suppose  I  can  do  the  substitution. So  the  V  two  divided  by  the  V  one, this  is  equal  to  V three  divided  by  V  four,  all  right? And  that's  almost  how  we  want, although  we'd  like  V  four  divided  by  V  three. Maybe  we'll  bring  this  back  to center  stage  here  and  move it  out. All  right. So  I  have  here  a  negative,  right? A  negative  of  a  natural  log  does  what? Right?  I  can  invert  it. Anything  that's  here,  I  can  put  to  the  power. So  then  v3v4  to  the  negative  one  is then  V  four  divided  by  V  three,  okay? So  this  goes  away,  right? And  then  this  is  V four  divided  by  v3r  gone. Natural  log  of  V  four  divided  by  V three,  gone,  gone,  gone. TH  minus  TC  divided  by H  or  how  it's  more  commonly  written  is one  minus  c  divided  by  H. So  if  you  want  to  make a  very  efficient  device for  producing  power,  what  do  you  do? Name  and  what  do  you  do? That's  it.  That's  it. That's  it. Okay?  And  this  temperature  is  Kelvin,  right? This  is  an  absolute  scale. This  only  works  in  Kelvin,  right? If  you  starting  0  Celsius  in  there, then  you're  going  to  get  some  weird  numbers. But,  yeah,  that's  exactly  it. So  when  you  think  about a  cycle  or  you  look  at  it, you  know,  they're  essentially, you  know,  you  want  to be  having  heat  transferred in  from  something  that's at  high  temperature,  all  right? And  the  lower  the  temperature that  you  transfer  the  heat  in  from, the  lower  the  efficiency  will  be,  okay? This  is  a  way  of  saying,  right, that  heat  has  a  quality  to  it,  all  right? You  can  rank  it.  You  can basically  say  if  it  has  a  value,  okay? So  we  talk  about  low  grade  heat. Low  grade  heat  is  like, I  don't  know, waste  heat  out  of  a  building,  right? It's  heat  that's being  transferred  from  something that's  at  a  relatively  low  temperature, and  we  don't  use  it,  okay? But  if  you  start taking  heat  off  of  things  that are  at  higher  temperatures,  all  right? In  a  process,  you  can  start to  make  use  of  these  things,  okay? I  think  there  was  a  question  in  front. Yeah.  Name.  Arturo.  So  the negative  so  this  comes  back  to  here,  okay? And  even  further,  which  is  to  this, if  I  want  to  talk  about  work in  from  state  one  to  state  two,  all  right? And  because  it's  an  in, I'm  declaring  the  value. So  what  I  need  to  produce  here  needs  to  be a  positive  value  because I'm  writing  in,  okay? For  that  to  happen,  I  have  to  look and  see  my  volume  at  state  two. This  is  a  compression  process. So  V  two  is  going  to  be  less  than  V  one. The  natural  log  of  that  ratio  is  negative. So  to  make  this  a  positive quantity  and  to  be  a  work  in  process, I  have  to  put  a  negative  sign. One,  two,  The  work because  this  is  an  isothermal  process and  it's  an  ideal  gas, because  it's  isothermal, the  internal  energy  doesn't change.  That's  what  we  said  here. So  the  work  in there  must  be  equal  to  the  heat  out. So  then  you  have  the  heat  out. And  so  that's  the  origin of  the  first  negative  sign. And  that's  what  went  into  here. So  then  the  Q  minus  the  Q  out. And  we  just  took  that  negative sign,  and  we  flipped, what  would  have  been  the  V three  divided  by  the  V  four, then  became  V  four  divided  by  V  three, and  then  all  the  canceling, and  then  you  end  up  with  that,  okay? The  other  thing  that  I  will  tell  you, so  Saudi  Kara  he  did  this.  This  is  beautiful. You  look  at  all  of  that  and  you  think,  like, that's  actually,  you  know,  quite  a  statement. So  there's  two  things that  are  interesting  to  this. The  first  is  that  he  did  it with  not  understanding  heat. He  did  this  at  a  time  when he  thought  heat  was  a  substance. Like  it  was  called  caloric  theory,  okay? Um,  caloric  theory,  and  later  on, it  was  shown  that  it's  not,  right? It's  basically  not  they  had a  lot  of  weird  ideas  back  then. Um,  But,  you  know, his  math  and  his  thinking was  so  consistent  that he  still  produced  a  result that  actually  could  stand. But  you  don't  see anything  about  a  substance  here. Of  course,  in  this  derivation, we  did  it  for  an  ideal  gas, but  you  can  get  in  and show  that  this  statement, this  doesn't  depend  on the  substance  involved. The  efficiency  of a  thermal  engine  only  depends. The  maximum  efficiency of  a  thermal  engine  only depends  on  the  difference between  the  temperatures of  the  heat  in  the  heat  out. Okay?  So  if  you  take  no  other  formula  out  of this  class,  This  is  it,  okay? Seriously.  I  look  back at  my  notes  from  before  coming  in  today. I'm  not  going  to  say  how  long  ago, but  I  looked  back  at  it  and  I  thought, I  did  remember  that.  Okay.  All  right. Cool.  If  there's  no  questions  about  that, I  think  we  have  enough  time  to  do  this  is kind  of  an  that's  an  easy  one. I'd  prefer  to  flex  the  legs. Well,  maybe  we  should  do  easy. Okay,  maybe  we  do  that  one.  All  right. But  as  usual,  all those  ones  you  can  launch  and see  and  go  through. Some  might  be  interesting  and  helpful for  future  homeworks  there. Okay.  Do  do  do.  All  right. This  feels  like  more  of a  permanent  marker  here. That's  not.  Oh,  man,  do,  do,  do. All  right.  That's  good. Cool. Alright,  so  in  this  problem, what  we're  looking  at  is a  refrigeration  cycle  just to  remind  you  what  that  looks  like,  right? So  you  have  a  work  transfer that  happens  to  the  compressor. You  take  a  refrigerant.  One  of  the most  common  is  R  134  A. You  take  that  from  a  low  pressure, you  compress  it  to  a  high  one. You  force  it  to  condense,  okay? So  you  go  from  like  a  rate  of  vapor. You  condense  down  into  a  liquid, you  transfer  heat  out. You  put  that  through  an  expansion  valve, what  we  call  throttling  process, a  big  temperature  drop. This  causes  you  then  to  produce like  a  mixture  of  liquid  and  vapor, and  then  you  evaporate  all  the  rest  of the  basically  all  the  rest  of the  liquid  there  and  do  the  cooling,  okay? But  the  key  parts  of this  is  you  have  a  heat  out, a  heat  in,  and  a  work  in  there. And  what  we'd  like  to  determine  are  the  Q dot  L's  and  the  Q  dot H's  and  the  M  dot,  okay? And  usually  in  these  systems, the  way  that  they're  rated  is based  on  the  Q  dot  L,  okay? And  they're  usually  set is  things  like  tons,  right? So  how  many  tons  of  ice  could  you  produce, like  in  an  hour  are  there? So  that's  kind  of  a  standard way  that  these  are  looked  at. Okay? All  right.  So  for  the  thermal  engines,  right? We  said  that  right? And  this  is  not  a  thermal  engine, but  just  to  remind  you,  right? The  thermal  engine  was  the desirable  thing  on  top,  right, O  W  net  out, divided  by  our  Q  in. Okay,  that's  how  we  rank  performance. For  refrigerators, heat  pumps,  and  all  of  that, we  talk  about  a  COP, a  coefficient  of  performance,  right? So  what's  the  desirable  thing in  a  refrigerator? Besides  the  beverages  being  cold. Yes.  So  that's  it,  right? So  the  desirable  thing  there  is,  right? You  want,  like,  a  lot  of  Q  dot  L,  all  right? And  what  do  you  pay? Work  in.  That's  it. Okay?  So  basically,  you  have  you  have  this. If  this  was  a  heat  pump, so  this  is  a  refrigerator, right?  It's  a  refrigerator. All  right.  If  it  was  a  heat  pump, what  would  you  write  in  the  numerator? So  remember,  the  whole  point of  a  heat  pump  is that  you  want  to  warm  something  up,  right? Cody.  So  that's  it, right?  This  is  not  rocket  science. We  will  get  the  rocket  science. No  today,  though,  right? So  w.in  there,  right? So  that's  refrigerator. And,  this  would  be  heat  pump,  right? All  right,  so  we're  interested  in  this  one. So  we're  interested  in  the  refrigerator. So  our  desirable  is  the  Q  dot  L  and  the  w.in. As  we  were  told,  the  w.in  we know  is  600  watts. COP  is  equal  to  a  terrible  value  of  1.2. 1.2  is  like  That's  not  a  good  number, but  it's  a  number  for  this  problem. And  from  this  formula  of  the  COP, if  I  know  write  my w.in  and  I  know my  COP,  from  this  formula,  right, I  can  write  Q  dot  L  is  equal  to w.in  times  my  C  COP. So  again,  600  watts  times  1.2,  okay? And  we  have  that  as  a  Q  dot  L,  right? So  we  now  know  one  thing, we  know  Q  dot  L. All  right.  All  right. So  as  I  mentioned,  right, in  these  cycles,  to  determine  things  like, to  determine  things  like,  for  example, the  mass  transfer  we're  going  to  get into  because  I  know  the  Q  dot  L, and  I  want  to  get  dot, I'm  going  to  need  to  figure  out, like,  what  these  states  are, essentially,  what  the  enthalpy  is  of  this. So  if  we  look  at  the  evaporator. So  let  me  make  sure  I  have  this is  state  one.  State  one's  100. Yeah.  So  let's  look  at  this  evaporator  here. So  this  is  my  All  right. My  evaporator  is  nothing  but, right,  like  a  heat  exchanger. So  I  have  some  MDOT  entering. I  have  some  MDOT  that's  leaving,  right? It's  a  steady  flow  device.  Okay. Let's  call  this  as  maybe state  one.  I  didn't  number  it. Yeah.  State  one  is  maybe  entering, State  two  is  exiting, and  we  have  some  heat that's  being  transferred  in  Q  dot  L, which  we  know  from  from  there. And  what  we  want  to  figure  out next  is  the  mass  flow  rate,  all  right? Sure,  yeah,  mass  flow  rate.  All  right. So  to  do  that,  we write  our  conservation  of  energy.  Alright? So  we  say,  right  that  DE  CV. So  this  is  my  control  volume  CV. Dt  is  equal  to  e.in  minus  e  dot  out. We  can  also  write  our  conservation  of  mass, dmcv  dt  is  equal  to my.in  minus  my  dot  out,  right? We  assume  steady  flow  conditions, so  these  go  away. And  so  what  we'll  have  then  is  write.in is  equal  to  m  dot  out  is  equal  to  M  dot. And  in  this  case,  right, this  also  implies  that  e.in  is equal  to  e  dot  out,  right? We  can  expand  this. So  the  ways  that  energy  can  be transferred  in,  I  can  have  aw.in, aq.in,  and  then  I  can  have  an  m.in, which  I'm  just  going  to  call  as  dot. And  I'm  going  to  times  one  plus  velocity  one squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  one, and  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to  W  dot out  plus  Q  dot  out  plus  dot  out. Again,  is  dot  times  H  two  plus  velocity two  squared  divided  by two  plus  GZ  two,  right? We're  going  to  neglect,  right, kinetic  and  potential  energy  effects,  right? So  those  are  gone.  Do  we have  work  transfer  into  a  heat  exchanger? No,  workout.  I'll  give  you  this  one. No.  What  about  heat  in? What  do  we  call  it?  Q  dot L.  What  about  heat  out? No,  right?  So  essentially, then  our  Q  dot  L,  right? So  this  Q  dot  L  is  equal  to  m dot  times  H  two  minus  RH  one. Again,  we  would  like  to  find  this  dot. We  know  Q  dot  L.  We need  to  figure  out  two  and  one. Right?  So  for  state  state  one, what  do  we  know  about  state  one? So  state  one  is  entering the  evaporator.  What's  the  pressure? 100  kp, and  our  quality  X  one  is  equal  to  two. With  Pi  kiloor  in  tables, you  can  look  this  up  and  get  to  your  H one  value  for  state  two. So  I'd  say  Pi  kiloor  H  one  equals  a  value. I  and  state  two,  what  do  I  know? I  know,  again,  the  pressure  P  one  is equal  P  two  is  equal to  P  one  because it's  a  heat  exchanger,  right? Heat  exchanges  are  isobaric,  right? We  don't  have  pressure  drops. In  this  class,  we  don't  have pressure  drops  across  heat  exchangers. And  we  know  the  temperature, the  temperature  is  given  T  two  is  equal  to negative  26  degrees  Celsius,  right? And  it's  fair  to ask  yourself  what's  going  to  be the  state  of  the  vapor  there? I  mean,  in  this  case, we  could  look  it  up  and  see, but  it's  most  likely either  a  saturated  vapor  or potentially  a  superheated  vapor. There,  right? But  the  point  is  that  presumably from  these  two  pieces  of  information, we  then  also  know  H  two,  again, from  Pi  color,  all  right? So  with  those  two  things  no,  right? We  can  substitute  into  this  formula, and  we'll  rearrange,  right? So  dot  is  equal  to  Q  dot  L  divided by  H  two  minus  H  one,  right? And  what's  my  value?  The  value  that I  have  for  my  MDOT is  0.004  1  kilogram/second. Yeah,  that's  like  a  small  fridge. That's  your  fridge  at  home is  probably  that  size. The  final  part  then,  so  we know  Q  dot  L,  we  know  dot, and  now  we  can  figure  out Q  dot  H.  And  the  way  that  we  can  figure out  Q  dot  H  is  to  draw, again,  a  control  volume around  the  entire  device. Let's  say  this  is  my  whole my  whole  device  here. It  looks  like  this.  Horribly  drawn. I  have  a  Q  dot  H.  Which  is  out, I  have  a  Q  dot  L, which  is  here,  and  I  have  aw.in. If  I  go  in,  I  draw my  control  volume.  You  know,  I  don't  know. Let's  say  I  draw  it  like  this around  the  entire  system. You  can  look  at  this  and  say, um,  you  know,  write  the  first  law  here. So  we  say  for  the  first  law  is  that, um,  Oh,  my  gosh.  Um. What  we're  going  to  end  up  with  here is  that  the  change, right  in  the  energy  of  the  system  has to  be  zero  in  its  steady  state,  right? So  the  energy  that  I  transfer  in  must  be equal  to  the  energy that's  transferred  out,  right? So  Q  dot  H  is  what's leaving  and  what's  entering  is then  my  w.in  plus  my  Q  dot  L,  right? And  the  w.in  was  a  given,  right? So  that's  600  watts,  the  Q  dot  L, um,  We  just  determined, which  was  over  there  that  was,  like, the  first  thing  that  we  did  plus  that  number. And  so  what  I  have  at  the  end of  this  is  one,  three, two,  zero  watts  is  then  the  Q  dot  H,  okay? Yeah.  And  I think  one  of  the  things  I  always  like, wrap  your  head  around with  this  is  that  you  are  able,  right? So  the  whole  point  of the  COP  here  is  that  you're  able  to transfer  move  more  heat than  the  work  you  put  in,  okay? It  seems  like  a violation  of  the  first  law,  right? So  I  put  like  one  unit  of electricity  in,  and  I'm  able  to  pump, let's  say,  in  this  case, 1.2  units  of  heat  from  the  cold  reservoir. I  The  way  to  know  that  it's  not a  violation  is  to  first  just look  at  the  first  law,  okay? So  everything,  you  know, about  that  is  possible. I'm  able  to,  you  know,  move, absorb  more  dot  L  here  for  an  amount  of  w.in. For  this  to  work,  though, the  sum  of  those  two  components  in  has to  equal  the  heat  that  leaves,  all  right? And  that's  why,  again,  the  back  of a  fridge  is  very  warm  and  all  of that  because  you  have  a  lot of  heat  to  reject. But  there's  many  scenarios where  this  makes  a  lot  of  sense, you  know,  so  if you  think  about  electrification, you  want  to  electrify  so  this  again, this  is  on  the  refrigeration  side, but  if  you  want  to  run  that as  like  a  heat  pump, So  again,  you  can  look  at  that  as  an  example. So  here's  an  example  of  that. Water  heater,  right? So  you  could  take,  like  a  resistor, take  electricity,  heat the  water  directly,  right? That's  first  law,  though,  right? So  I  put  electricity  in, I  transfer  work  in. All  of  that  then  becomes heat  for  warming  this  device. But  that's  one  to  one,  right? The  point  with  the  heat  pump,  though, is  I  can  take  one  unit  of  work  in, and  I  can  move  in  several  units of  heat  into  the  water  heater. And  that's  the  whole  reason why  heat  pump  technologies are  very  competitive  is  because  they  just, like,  I  mean,  it's  a  no  brainer. You  don't  even  need  to  know  thermo. You  do  need  to  know  thermo, but  you  don't  really need  to  understand  thermo to  get  the  fact  that  for the  same  dollar  that  I  pay, I  can  have  three  units of  the  same  quality  of  heat,  right? You're  just  going  to  install that  capital  costs and  other  things  notwithstanding, alright?  Cool.  It's  Friday. I  feel  like  I  ran  you  through  a  lot. So  I'm  basically  going  to  close  it. I'm  going  to  close  it  here. If  you  have  any  questions,  for  example, not  about  the  quiz.  I'm  just  kidding. Maybe  quiz  too.  Feel  free  to  come  up. Otherwise,  have  a  great  weekend,  everyone. That's  great.
