I right  Okay,  I  got  210, so  I  will  get  started. So  what  I  have  here,  is this  example  we  left  off  with  last  time, where  we  took  a  hot  piece  of iron  and  dropped  it  into  a  cold  bath. What  we  know  from  this  process is  that  it's  an  adiabatic adiabatic  basically  from the  overall  system,  all  right? It's  a  no  work  exchange because  it's  incompressible between  CV  one  and CV  two  in  the  surroundings. We  represent  that  by  saying,  right, that  the  change  in  the  internal  energy of  this  combined  system is  no  heat,  no  work,  right? So  that's  zero,  okay? Um,  We  know  the  initial  states,  right? We  know  the  rock  to  start  with, you  know,  the  water,  right? And  so  what  we're  looking  for is  the  final  temperature  that's  there,  right? So  what  we  did  is,  at the  end  of  the  last  lecture, right,  the  change  in  the  internal  energy of  control  volume  one, which  I'm  representing  with  pink here  is  the  mass  of  the  iron, the  specific  heat  of the  iron  times  the  final  temperature, which  we  don't  know  minus the  initial  temperature,  okay? And  we're  going  to  come  up  with  a  similar expression  for  the  water. We're  going  to  substitute both  those  formulas  together, and  then  we're  going  to solve  for  T  two,  okay? Um,  Yes. Okay.  So  for  the  water  baths, and  now  we're  basically  dealing  with  CV  two. So  for  control  volume  to  the  water  bath, we  know  from  incompressible  fluids  that the  specific  heat  Cp  is equal  to  CV  is  equal  to  C,  right? So  it's  a  it's  a  constant. And  so  changes  in  internal  energy. Random  writing  little  U  here, so  joules  per  kilogram  is  equal  to  CV, random  which  is  a  function  of temperature  times  dt,  right? This  is  just  a  definition  that  we  have. If  we  integrate  through  here  and  if  we treat  the  specific  heat as  being  constant  over the  temperature  range  that  we're  studying, which  is  basically  valid  for most  of  the  problems, right,  that  we  work  with,  right? We  can  pull  that  out  of  the  integral,  right? And  we'll  call  it  dt,  right? And  so  in  this  case, if  we  have  that,  you  know, Delta  U,  it  is  then  equal to  approximate  symbol,  approximate. So  basically  approximately  equal  to  some  CV. Let's  call  it,  you  know,  for the  now  maybe  average. And  then  we  can  times  that  by  T two  minus  T  one,  right? And  we  did  this  for  the  rock.  What  I said  is  in  the  tables. So  if  you  go  to  the  tables  and  you  look up  what  you  have  for  the  iron. So,  not  the  rock,  the  iron,  right, is  there's  11  value  of  CP,  right? Basically,  one  value  of  the specific  heat  that's  there. For  water,  you  have  other  ones,  right, zero,  25,  50,  75,  and  100. My  recommendation,  especially  when getting  started  in  these  problems  and  working on  it  for  now  is  just  to  pick the  value  that's  at room  temperature unless  you're  told  otherwise, right? So  all  I'm  going  to say  is  that  basically  this is  for  the  case  of  water,  um,  right, CV  at  T  equals  to 25  degrees  C,  which  because  of  that, it's  CP,  and  there  it's  what,  4.1, 4.18  kilojoules  per  kilogram  kelvin. All  right?  I  mean,  it's very  detailed,  but,  you  know, I  want  to  be  explicit  with  this,  all  right? Is  that  clear  for  all  or  no? Great.  Um,  Yeah.  And  so  then, right,  if  we  want  to  turn  this  into the  Delta  U,  which  is  what  we  want. So  the  big  Delta  U  of CV  two  is  then equal  to  the  mass  of  the  water, mh2o  times  CV,  h2o  times  T  two, the  final  temperature, which  we  don't  know  minus the  initial  temperature  t1h  20,  right? Okay,  so  if  I  call  this  as  If  I  call  this  is, let's  call  it  equation  one. If  I  call  this  basically  as  equation  two, and  if  I  call  this  as  equation  three, I  combine  two  and  three. If  I  combine  two  and  three  into  one, what  we're  going  to  have  is  the  mass  of the  iron,  M  of  F, CV  of  FE,  I'm  writing  FE  the  symbol  for  iron, T  two  minus  T  one,  comma, FE,  and  then  that's  going  to be  plus  this  formula  here. So  that's  going  to  be  plus  h2o,  CV, h2o  times  T  two, the  final  temperature  minus the  initial  temperature  T  one, h2o,  and  that's  all  equal  to  zero. All  right.  Maybe  a  ten  All  right. And  so  all  you  do  is you  basically  rearrange  them. So  if  we  rearrange four  and  we  solve  for  T  two, what  we're  going  to  have  then  is  T two  is  equal to  the  mass  of  the  iron  CV of  the  iron  T  one  of the  iron  plus  the  mass  of  water  h2o, CV,  h2o,  and  t1h  20. All  right.  And  all  that's  essentially divided  by  the  MCVs. Then  we're  going  to  have,  of  iron, CV  of  iron  plus  the  mass  of  h2o, and  then  the  CV  of  h2o,  okay? Yeah,  and  if  I  substitute  the  value,  right? So  we're  given  the masses  are  given  in  the  problem. The  initial  temperatures  are, let's  see,  given  in  the  problem  in  Celsius. That's  perfectly  fine  here because  we're  going  to  expect  a  value that's  going  to  be  intermediate  80-25,  right? So  you  could  see  maybe  these initial  factors  as  kind  of  like waiting  factors  for  which  ones  are  going  to, um,  end  up  at. So  we  know  the  mass, the  CVs,  we  know the  mass,  we  know  the  temperatures. The  CVs  I  just  showed  you, CVs  are  CPs  for  these  cases. So  that's  your  water,  and  that's  your  iron. All  right.  So  you  substitute that  in,  and  then  it's  the  same  here. You  have  the  M's  and  the  C's  with  it. So  if  you  substitute  those  values, what  I  have  is  a  T  two  that  is 58  Oh,  I'm  sorry. Geez,  I'm  reading  wrong. 25.6  degrees  Celsius  as my  final  temperature,  okay? And  I  can  analyze  this  and  say  Gee  whiz, that's  not  a  huge  temperature  increase. That's  like  0.6. Calvin,  but  what  you have  to  recognize  is  that the  drawing  here  is obviously  not  to  scale,  right? There's  an  order  of  magnitude  more  water there  by  mass  than there  is  essentially  of  iron. That's  that's  half  a  ton  of  water  and, you  know,  only  50  kilogram then  of  iron,  okay? Yes,  please.  When  you  put the  80  degrees  four  degrees. You  don't  get  so  in  this  case, in  this  class,  there  is  no  such  thing,  right? So  there  is  this  value. That's  what's  in  the  table. If  you  wanted  to  be  that  sophisticated, you  could  go  up  and  look  it. What  I  would  tell  you,  though,  and this  is  what  I  introduced  earlier, is  if  you  want  to  look  up  like specific  heats  and  how they  depend  upon  temperature, let's  call  this  roughly  like, I  don't  know,  100  Kelvin  that's  here. You'll  see  kind  of  a  big  drop  off, and  then  kind  of,  you  know,  you  do  it. So  basically,  by  some  critical  temperature, you've  already  activated  most  of the  modes  of  energy  storage  in  the  material. And  so  when  you  go  to  really  high  ones, you  don't  see  that  much  of  a  gain,  right? So  water's  a  nice  example. So  25-100,  you  go  from  4.18  to  4.22. So  that's  less  than  1%  change in  the  specific  heat,  okay? But  if  you  get  to, like,  temperature  differences  that are  maybe  like  1,000  Kelvin,  right, then  maybe  that  tiny  amount that  you  have  there becomes  relevant  for  your  calculations,  okay? But  fair  question.  Other  questions? How  might  you  do  this  differently? You  had  a  very  good  point  last lecture  if  you  cared  to  share. Yeah. Yes.  Exactly. So  instead  of  writing our  conservation  of energy  equation  in  this  way, or  we  could  write  it  in  this  way. The  way  you  could  look  at  it  is that  the  change  in  the  internal  energy  of the  water  has  to  equal the  change  in  internal  energy of  the  iron,  right? Which  is  to  say  that  the  heat that  I  transfer  into  the  water has  to  be  equal  to  the  heat  that leaves  that's  transferred  out of  the  iron,  right? And  for  me,  that's a  more  intuitive  way  to  do  it, especially  later  on  when we  get  into  heat  exchangers. That's  a  much  more  intuitive  way, but  I'm  just  following,  you  know, basically,  I'm  following  the  book  here. And  also,  this  framework  of  kind of  this  additive  approach into  changes  in  internal  energy for  control  volumes  is  a  good  one,  right? So  the  GSI,  I  think  Cassidy worked  through  a  problem  with  a  room and  a  radiator  and  a  fan, and  there  it's  very  helpful  to  visualize, break  it  down  into  the  different  parts. Analyze,  right,  from  your  initial  to your  final  states  and then  just  start  adding  things  up. And  just  like  in  that  problem, I'm  pretty  sure  it  was an  adiabatic  no  work transfer  process  at  the  end  of it  with  the  goal basically  to  find  T  two,  all  right? Wonderful.  Okay,  so  if there  are  no  other  questions, Okay.  Great. So  today,  essentially, we're  going  to  go through  some  conservation  principles, and  then  at  the  end,  we're  going to  finish  with  turbines, right?  There's  a  bit  of  math. You  know,  we're  going  over  a  very important  is  a  very  important  stage, right,  in  the  class  when  we  get  into what  are  called  steady  flow  devices. But  this  is  rockets,  nozzles, diffusers,  turbines. Basically,  everything  that  goes  fast is  and  how  we  produce the  energy  is  based  on this  analysis,  all  right? Okay,  so  we've  done  conservation. Of  energy.  That's  the  first  principle. In  your  courses  and  later  on, you  basically  have  two  other  ones  that you'll  deal  with  conservation  of mass  and  conservation  of  energy  we've  done. Mass,  now  we're  going  to  do. The  last  one  is  Momentum. When  you  take  E  one  oh  six, you're  going  to  de  a  lot  with  conservation  of mass  and  conservation  of  momentum. In  this  class,  we  only  do  conservation  of energy  and  conservation  of  mass  with  it. Okay,  what  I  want  you  to  look  at  here, what  I'm  defining  essentially  here  is,  again, one  of  my,  um,  uh,  control  volumes. I  have,  let's  say, um,  you  know,  I  don't  know, I  define  some  type  of,  uh, you  know,  wonky  looking,  um, you  know,  basically  control  volume  here. This  is  the  interface  and  basically  maybe at  this  interface,  um,  right? I  have  a  vector  which  is  normal,  right? So  I  have  a  vector that's  normal  at  that  point, right,  which  I  can  define. That's  possible.  If  you  ever  read  Gauss, you  know,  beautiful  stuff  from  him. If  I  take  any  surface,  right? I  can  take  a  point.  I  can define  the  curvature  at  that  point, and  I  can  define  a  vector  that's normal  away  from  it,  okay? So  we  have  that.  So  this is  basically  like,  let's  say, a  normal  vector,  one,  two, let's  say,  at  this  point, I  have  the  following,  you know,  velocity,  right? So  let's  say  that  I  have  a  fluid  velocity  V, I'll  denote  it  as  a  vector  with the  arrow  over  it,  okay? The  first  step  in  all  of  this, right,  would  be  right? To  essentially,  right, to  do  the  analysis  at  this  point, what  we  actually  need  to  know is  the  velocity, right,  of,  let's  say, this  fluid  in the  normal  direction  to  this,  right? So  essentially  we  do  a  projection,  right, of  this  velocity  here  into  um, onto  the  normal  direction, right,  which  we  can  then  call  as, let's  say,  V  bar,  um, N,  and  denoting  uh  the  normal. And  I'm  putting  an  arrow  above  this, at  least  for  the  moment  so  I  don't confuse  you  with  volume. Again,  I  have  26  characters, a  couple  of  Greek  letters, but  that's  where  we're  we're  at,  right? And  I  represent  this,  you  know, here  in  the  plot  again. If  you  want  to  go  through, you  can  run  through that  code  and  see  it,  right? Okay,  that's  the  mathy  part  of  it,  right? In  reality,  the  way  that we  deal  with  this  is  we don't  draw  boundaries  in a  weird  way  where  we  need  to  do  math,  right? We're  engineers,  we're  efficient,  okay? If  you  want  to  torture  yourself,  you can  go  on  the  road  there,  right? So  in  this  case,  what  I'm  showing  you is  a  classic  problem  right, a  classic  problem  of  a  pipe  flow,  okay? And  I'm  going  to  draw  the  boundary  such  as this  velocity  that  I  see here  matches  VN,  right? So  basically,  I'm  going to  draw  this  in  this  way.  All? How  do  I  do  that?  The  first  thing  to  know is  to  describe  for  you  what a  velocity  looks  like  in  a  pipe  flow. There's  a  fascinating  history  to this  Poisll  was  looking  at  this, like  flow  in  your  blood  in  your  veins  and, like,  how  that  goes. And  it  turns  out,  right, there's  two  important  well, basically,  there's  like  one very  important  thing  in  fluids. Like  thermo,  we  draw  a  boundary. In  fluids,  there's  no  slip  at  the  wall. There  is  no  slip,  okay? So  Here,  I  have  no  slip.  Okay,  one. And  so  I  have  some  flow  that  I'm  bringing  in. I  have  no  slip  there. What  it  basically  means  is that  I'm  going  to  assume  that I'm  going  to  end  up  with  a  maximum velocity  at  the  middle, and  probably  to  a  good  approximation, actually, maybe  analytically  correct, you're  going  to  end  up with  a  parabolic  fp  profile,  right? So  again,  this  is  All  right,  maximum, the  way  we  represent these  velocities  at  these  different  points is  we  draw  arrows that  look  like  this,  all  right? Okay.  But  this  is  my  right? This  is  my  boundary. And  I've  drawn  this,  right? It  turns  out  maybe  I'm  a  bit lucky  in  the  way  that  I've  drawn  here, it  turns  out  that  all  those  velocity  vectors, the  magnitude  or  the  direction  of those  velocity  vectors  also lies  on  the  normal,  right? The  plane  that's  normal  or the  line  that's  normal  to  that  plane,  okay? Again,  if  you  want  to  plot  it, you  can  see  it  there. Okay.  Um,  That's  great.  All  right? Ooh.  All  right. Where  should  I  go  with  this,  right? So  maybe  it's  better  if  I keep  up  before  I  get  into  this,  right? So  we  can  talk  about  this  is  like  velocities, but  actually  what  we  care  about  is not  necessarily  velocity  all  the  time. We  care  a  lot  about  mass  flow  rates,  okay? So  we  can  take  this  and this  velocity,  and  by  knowing,  right, the  density  of  the  fluid or  specific  volume  of  the  fluid, I  can  turn  this  into  mass  fluorides. That's  a  conserved  principle. There  is  no  conservation  of  volume,  okay? You  get  into  that, you  think  about  a  compressor. I  have  a  low  specific  volume going  into  a  compressor, a  high  one  leaving  it  Like, if  you  go  with  conservation  of  volume, you're  out  of  job. Okay? All  right.  So  we  can  write a  differential  of  the  mass flow  rate,  generally,  right? Delta,  again,  I'm  going  to go  with  inexact  differentials. Delta  M  dot,  dot, meaning  that,  you  know, like  the  Newton  notation,  right? So  dm  dt  is  equal  to  M  dot,  right? So  this  is  what Leibnitz,  that's  Neton,  right? So  we're  going  with  Newton  notation here  and  M  dot  is equal  to  the  inverse  of  specific  volume. The  magnitude  of  the  velocity  normal,  right? So  basically,  the  normal  velocity and  the  cross sectional  the  differential  then  of the  cross  sectional  area  that's  that's  there. And  again,  we  chose  this  plane intelligently  so  that,  you  know, this  matches  that  and we  don't  have  to  do  any  kind  of cosines  or  projections.  All  right. Um,  if  we  go with  that  formula  that  I  had  there,  right? So  what  I  can  say  is  that the  magnitude  then  of this  normal  velocity  is  then equal  to  some  V  max,  okay? So  value  that's  here, that  doesn't  really  concern us  for  this  class. And  then  this  would  be  one  minus  little  R, right,  divided  by  big  R,  right? So  this  would  be,  right,  big  R, and  then  little  R  is  just  a  coordinate, right?  In  the  pipe.  Okay? So  when  I  have,  R equals  little  R  equals  zero, a  maximum,  when  I  have  little R  equal  to  big  R, this  is  zero,  and  that's  how  you produce  that  profile,  right? So  if  we  do  a  substitution into  this  and  we  integrate,  okay? So  if  I  go  write an  integral  in  dm  dot,  all  right? So  I'm  going  to  basically  be  doing a  double  integral  because it's  an  area  of  specific  volume, the  magnitude  of the  normal  velocity  R  D  DR  or  P, right,  is  like  this is  polar  coordinates,  right? I  could  like  wrote,  you  know,  look  into the  if  I  had  basically  looking  down  the  pipe, this  is  my  R,  right? This  would  be  your  Phi,  right? So  you  assume  it's  an  axymmetric you  know,  problem,  okay? So  we  don't  have  any  sort  of dependence  on  the  P  that's  in  here. So  these  integral  limits would  be  like  zero  to two  Pi  and  then  zero  to  R,  right? So  basically  zero  to  R, and  then  zero  to  two  Pi  in terms  of  the  of  the  radial,  right? Okay.  So  the  first  one,  right, the  first  integral, because  we  don't  have  any  in  here, this  is  just  to  be  two  Pi  minus  zero. So  you'll  end  up  with  a  two  Pi. And  then  the  other  one  is  that,  um,  right? We're  going  to  end  up  here. Well,  let's  just  write  it  out. Basically,  you're  going  to  have  here an  m.in  this  case. All  right,  which  is  going  to  then  be  equal  to two  Pi  V  max,  right? Vmax  is  a  cont. So  we  basically  substituting this  formula  into  here, and  we  integrate  into  Pi. You  have  two  Pi  Vmax  divided  by specific  volume  is  an  integral  zero to  R  of  R  minus  R  squared  divided  by  R, okay,  and  D  R,  right? You  can  go  through  and  you integrate  again  with  this, and  what  you're  going  to  end  up  with is  an  M  dot  that's equal  to  Pi  times  V  max,  right? You  maximum  velocity  R  squared divided  by  three  times the  specific  volume,  okay? Cool.  All  right,  um,  do. Yeah,  in  a  pipe,  so basically  in  a  pipe,  we  know  that  AC, so  the  cross  sectional area  is  going  to  be  equal  to Pi  R  is  equal  to  Pi  squared. And  so  if  with  this  knowledge, so  I  go  with  Pi  R  squared, I  can  rewrite  then  my  dot  as  being equal  to  a  row. So,  let's  go  with  this. Let's  go  with  AC,  Pi  R  squared  V  max, and  then  this  is  divided  by  three  V. Again,  because  this  is  going  to  come  up  and sometimes  you  might  see  it in  a  fluids  context, right,  the  density  is  equal  to the  inverse  of  specific  volume. And  so  what  this  will  look  like  then  is times  AC  times  V  max  divided  by, basically  divided  by  three,  okay? Um,  at  the  end  of  this, this  will  all  make sense  why  we  bother,  right? Um?  It  turns  out  this  V  max  divided  by  three. You  can  do  the  math  and  go  through with  the  definition  of  the  average  velocity, but  it  turns  out this  is  basically  going  to  be the  average  velocity  in  the  pipe,  right? And  so  this  is  by  definition, equal  to  one  over  Ac, the  integral  over  the  cross  sectional  area, right? The  normal  vector,  the magnitude  of  the  normal  vector, to  the  plane  there. And  then  this  is  dC. I'll  spare  you,  but if  you  go  through  my  notes  there  and  see, what  you  would  see  at the  end  of  this  is  that  the max  or  that  the  average  velocity  is basically  going  to  be  equal  to  V  max divided  by  three  there, okay?  So,  who  cares? The  who  cares  is  that,  again, when  we  think  about  control  volumes, and  we  draw  them  we  draw  them  intelligently. When  they  cross  through something  like  a  pipe,  right? This  should  be  done,  right,  essentially perpendicular  to  the  flow, right,  that  you  have  there.  That's  one. The  second  thing  is that  for  most  of  this  course, I  think  probably  the  entirety, we're  going  to  give  you  velocity  values, and  these  are  going  to  indicate  averages. So  if  you  see  a  pipe  that  says 100  meters  a  second,  you  know, into  a  nozzle  there, it  means  that  it's  the  average velocity  into  the  nozzle,  okay? And  I'm  telling  you  with  math and  knowledge  and  physics, you  could  go  back  and  show  that,  right? If  I  had  detailed  knowledge  about the  flow  profile  and  what's  there,  I  could, you  know,  come  up  with  this  average, and  that's  ME  one  oh  six, not  this  class,  okay? All  right.  Any  comments about  that?  All  right. Cool.  All  right.  So  there  we  go. So  again, average  velocities  are  what  we  care  about, and  we  draw  control  volumes  intelligently. The  conservation  of  mass principle  is  written  like  this,  right? So  we  have  a  control  volume. The  net  change  in  the  mass  in the  control  volume  is  equal to  how  much  enters it  to  minus  how  much  it  leaves  it. That's  the  same  thing  that  we  did,  right? This  is  accounting  fluid mechanics  accounting, right?  It's  written  like  this. So  in  non  rate  form  in minus  M  out  is  Delta  MCV. We  will,  again,  a  lot  of  this, we'll  be  writing  it  in  rate  form. We're  going  to  talk  about  dot  ins, minus  M  dot  outs  are  equal  to  dm  cv  dt. And  I'm  noting  here  the  units  in  this  case, again,  in  Libzon  in  Newton  notation. All  right?  Okay.  Yes. And  you  can  take,  right, everything  that  I've,  you  know, written  and  done  here,  right? I  did  it  for  a  pipe  flow, but  you  could  go  and  do  it  for,  right, and  develop  an  MDOT, you  know,  formula  for  something that's  leaving  or  entering. And,  right,  that  would  end  up being  something  that's  on the  right  hand  side, and  that  would  be  equal to  the  rate  of  change  of  what's actually  inside  of  the  control  volume,  okay? So  I'm  going  to  spare  you, you  know,  having  to  go  through  that. But  again,  this  is  nothing  but,  uh,  right? Essentially,  this  formula  that  I'm  writing here  and  done  more  generally. And  here,  row  in  this  case  is,  again, the  density,  V  here, dv  here  does  not  have  a  vector. This  is  indicating  the  volume,  right? So  essentially  the  density, the  rate  of  change  of the  density  times  the  change  in the  volume  is  then  equal  to the  change  in  the  mass  in  the  control  volume. Okay.  All  right. Another  thing  that's  going  to  come  up  a lot  is  you're  going  to  have  things sometimes  cases  where multiple  streams  are  coming into  a  control  volume  and  maybe leaving  as  one  or  vice  versa,  okay? This  is  called  a  mixing  chamber. You  know,  we're  going  to have  systems  that  we  do  it. What  do  you  need  to  know  is  that when  these  are  steady  processes, so  again,  right,  what  was the  formula  that  we  had  here,  right? We  said  that  dm,  right, CV  dt  is  equal  to  dm in  dt  minus  dm  out  dt,  okay? Um,  a  steady  process  in this  case  does  not  mean that  all  of  them  go  away,  okay? That  technically  is  a  steady  process,  right? But  the  system  is  dead,  okay,  right? If  nothing's  coming  in,  nothing's leaving,  obviously  nothing's  changing. Steady  in  this  case  here  means that  this  term  is  out,  okay? So  it's  like  I  have the  same  amount  leaving as  I  have  entering,  okay? That's  what's  steady  for,  right? So,  MD  basically  MDOT in  is  equal  to  your  MDOT  out. All  right.  And  that's  what's  shown  here, right,  in  this  case,  right? So  I  have  some  2  kilograms/second in,  3  kilograms/second  in. What  must  be  leaving  under steady  conditions,  right, is  then  that  two  plus  three must  be  equal  to  the  five,  all  right? And,  I  mean,  turbines, diffusers,  nozzles,  again, a  lot  of  what  we're  going  to analyze  are  going  to  have, I  would  say  90% of  what  we  analyze  is  going  to  be  this. There's  very  few  cases. They  are  important  cases, but  there's  a  few  cases  where  you  have, like  what  we  call  unsteady flow  where  essentially, let's  say  you  have  more  leaving than  you  have  entering,  okay? I  won't  make  the  accounting  joke  about  that, alright? Fine.  So,  that's  one  part  of  it. The  second  thing  is  that  there is  no  as  I  mentioned  before, there  is  no  conservation of  volume  principle,  okay? And  the  case  that  I  give  here, like  I  mentioned  before, is  this  air  compressor  case, I  have  2  kilograms/second  in, 2  kilograms/second  out,  right? So  that's  steady  according  to  my  definition. But  because  the  density in  here  or  the  specific  volume here  is  much  higher than  the  specific  volume  here, it's  a  denser  phase, you're  going  to  end  up  with  a lower  volumetric  flow  rate leaving  than  what  enters,  okay? So  MDTs,  conservation  of  mass, conservation  of  energy, not  conservation  of  volume,  right? Yeah.  You  can't  play  fast  with  the  rules. If  you  do  something  that's  incompressible, let's  say  like  water,  go  ahead. How  does  this  make  sense  with? I  don't  understand  the  question. Say  it  again. Because  you  said  the  air leaving  the  system  faster than  it's  entering  it. So  I'm  saying  the  mass  is entering  at  the  same  rate that  it's  leaving,  right? The  mass.  So  just  follow  with  me. Let's  say  we  accept  that. You  also  accept  that when  you  compress  something, is  the  density  higher  or  lower? Is  the  specific  volume  higher  or  lower? Lower.  Specific  volume times  the  mass  flow  rate, the  product  of  that  is the  volumetric  flow  rate. So  it  is  lower. The  big  compressor  industry has  been  lying  to  you,  all  right? Okay.  Other  comments  about  this? Okay,  so  that's  sweet. You  got  EE  one oh  six  your  setup  to  succeed  on,  alright? Alright. So,  now  we're  going  to  use  this,  alright? So  I'm  going  to  go  through  Oh, boy,  I  don't  like  that. Why  is  that  cut  off  like  that? Okay.  Um  Okay. Apologies.  I'm  not  sure  why my  Can  I  do  this  in  two  present? Of  course  not.  Okay,  so here  there were  basically  we're  talking  about, you  know,  one  inlet,  one  outlet  here. What  I  would  like  to  go  through  in this  example  is  to  go into  multiple  streams,  okay? And  at  the  end  of  this, I'm  going  to  show  you  why you  care  about  enthalpy, why  you're  going  to  use  enthalpy for  all  analysis  of all  steady  flow  devices  and not  changes  in  internal  energy like  we've  done,  right? So  enthalpy  is  where  we're  going  with  this, like  a  very  meaningful use  of  enthalpy,  right? Um,  So  let's  say  I  have a  control  volume  here  that  I draw  with  my  dashed  lines, and  I  have  these  dots  that  are  in, and  so  N  number  of  M  dots  in and  K  number  of  dots  out. Ganga  means  inlet, Aus  Ganga  means  exit,  apologies. So  we  have  M  dot. Our  general  mass  balance  is  going  to  be the  rate  of  change  of  mass in  the  control  volume. Ms  of  T  is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  sum  of those  dots  in  minus the  sum  of  the  M  dots  out? When  we  have  a  steady  balance, the  rate  that  the  mass  enters is  equal  to  the  rate  that  it  leaves. Okay,  so  that's  what  the  mass,  right? Now  we  can  go  and  do the  energy  balance,  right? The  thing  is  that  fluids  also  carry  energy. Remember  before  we  do a  control  volume,  and  I  said, In  this  control  volume, when  I  don't  have  mass  exchange, what  are  the  ways  I  can transfer  energy  in  and  out? Louder.  I'm  getting  I  don't  know. Maybe  there's  like  a  thing  in  my  ear. Okay.  How  can  I transfer  energy  in  and  out  of  control  volume? Work.  Or  heat.  That's  it. What  I'm  telling  you  is when  you  have  an  open  system, you  can  also  carry  energy  in  with  mass. Mass,  if  I  move  it  really quick  carries  kinetic  energy. There  can  be  kinetic  energy. Mass  that  I  bring  from  very  high, there's  potential  energy  that could  be  brought  into  it  and a  fluid  also  contains internal  energy.  It's  mass. So  the  rate  of  change. Let's  say  the  difference  in  the  energy  in this  control  volume  at some  future  time  minus  now  is equal  to  the  net  heat  we  transfer in  minus  the  network we  transfer  out  plus  an  additional  term, which  is  the  mass. Time  the  change  in  the  mass that  enters  with  its  little  energy. I'll  get  into  that  in  a  second, minus  the  change  in mass  times  the  energy  content that  it  has  leaving,  okay? So  we  have  basically  two  new  terms, and  it  has  to  do  with  the flow  energy  there,  okay? What  is  little  E?  So  little  E,  right? We  already  did  this  in  the  first, right  in  the  first  parts  of  the  lecture. We  said,  Look,  when  we  deal with  systems  here,  right? We  don't  want  to  talk  about  all the  kinds  of  energy,  right? You  know,  you  have  magnetic,  right? You  got  all  kinds  of  stuff. For  in  thermo,  we  just  said,  like,  look, we  want  to  deal,  right?  So  changes,  right? We  had,  like,  changes  in,  um,  you  know, Delta  E  CV,  right, is  equal  to  E  in  minus  the  E  out. And  the  way  that  we  said  that  energy could  change  in  the  control  volume, right,  was  this  Delta  U  plus  the  Delta  KE, plus  the,  um,  uh,  Delta  P.  We  said, these  are  the  three  types  of  energy  changes we're  interested  in  in  this  class,  okay? And  we  said,  Look, with  the  internal  energy  for  pure  substances, it  depends  on,  like  temperature  and  pressure, pressure  and  specific  volume, they  say  two  things. Okay?  This  depends  on  how high  you  are  and  how  fast  you  are. You  know,  are  you  using  bolt  or, you  know,  a  skydiver,  right? Um,  Okay, it's  no  different  with  the  fluids,  right? A  fluid  can  possess  internal  energy,  right? It  can  be  hot,  it  can  be  cold,  right? It  can  possess  kinetic  energy. It  can  have  a  speed  to  it,  a  velocity, nozzles,  very  important  nozzles, right,  rockets  and  all  of  that. And  it  can  possess  potential  energy, if  it's  very  high. I  think  pump  hydro,  right? Switzerland  where  I  was  before, the  country's  blessed  with mountains  and  all  of  this, but  also  a  lot  of  mountain  lakes. And  so  they  used  to  store  a  ton of  energy  with  hydro, pump  it  up,  bring  it  back  down. It's  a  beautiful  way  to  store  energy. So  those  are  like  the  three  ways,  again, in  this  class  that  we're  going  to  talk  about the  energy  of  a  flowing  fluid,  okay? That's  literally,  right? Again,  because  it's  a  little  letter, it  indicates  that  it's energy  per  mass,  right? Okay,  so  you  can go  from  this  form  that  I  have  here. So  if  we  divide  basically both  sides  here  by  Delta  T, so  some  small  time,  um, increment,  we  can  turn each  of  these  things  into  a  rate  form,  right? So  the  change  in  the  energy  of the  control  volume  can  be  E  dot,  right? The  the  change  in  heat  transfer  can  be  Q  dot, w  dot,  and  so  on  and  so  forth, including  also,  um, the  mass  flow  rates,  right? And  so  that's  what  we  write  here. So  basically,  this  form  the  formula  is the  conservation  of  energy for  control  volume, or  I  can  bring  heat  in  or  out  work in  or  out  or  a  fluid  in  or  out,  okay? So  here,  okay? So  the  Q  dot,  right? This  could  be  essentially  like heat  loss  through  a  housing. But  the  W  dot,  I  want  to  pause  for a  second  because  this  is a  little  bit  complicated,  all  right? This  W  dot,  right? When  we  were  dealing  with these  systems  and  the  pistons, what  were  ways  that  we were  dealing  with  work? Let's  say,  what  were  types  of work  transfer  processes  that we  could  do  with, like,  a  piston  cylinder? Name  and  what? Yes.  Okay.  That's  wonderful. What's  another  type  of  work  interaction? Yeah.  That's  also  PDV. So  I  can  do  that. That's  good.  Okay.  Yes,  please. Force  distance. Force  distance  of similar  to  him.  Yes,  please. Name.  Ryan  electric  work. Yes,  right? I  can  transfer  working  electrically. That  was  the  other  way  we  did  it,  okay? What  I'm  telling  you  here is  that  when  you  bring  a  fluid  in, right,  you  may  have  to displace  a  fluid  out,  okay? That  makes  sense. Kind  of  like  a  plunger  effect, a  piston,  a  little  bit like  the  boundary  work  before. You  may  have  to  push  it. And  that  is  called  flow  work. And  you  don't  give  a  shit as  an  engineer  about  flow  work. That's  a  penalty  for  you,  okay? So  you  want  to  get  flow  work out  of  this  W  dot,  okay? If  you  want  a  job  with  GE, I  saw  Nviden  front, you  want  to  go  work  for  GE. This  w  dot  cannot  be  w  dot  of  everything. You  want  to  get  flow  work  out  of  it. And  I'm  going  to  show  you how  to  get  rid  of  that,  okay? Um,  so  let's  imagine  this  experiment,  okay? So  again,  let's  say  we  have this  bladder  looking  control  volume, all  right?  All  right? So  you  got  let's  say  a  fictitious, an  imaginary  piston,  and  it  has some  cross  sectional  area to  it,  A,  all  right? The  fluid  at  this  point  has a  density  or  the  inverse  specific  volume, and  it  has  a  pressure,  all  right? And  let's  say  that  there's one  stream  that  it  can  leave. And  now  we  push  that  piston  a  little  bit. So  we  do  that  displacement. So  what  was  mentioned  before, we  displaced  that  piston  a  little  bit. So  some  of  delta  little  S, so  that's  a  distance  that  it's  moved. The  cross  sectional  area times  that  Delta  S  is  a  Delta  V, a  volume  change,  okay? P  dv,  in  a  sense,  right? So  the  work  you  have  there  is that  pressure  there  times that  displacement  in  volume. And  we  can  write  it  this  rate  form. It  can  be  w  dot  is  the  pressure  times the  cross  sectional  area,  times  the  velocity. Again,  just  because  I've got  too  many  Vs  that  are  here, I'm  going  to  go  with  the  German  one  vinca W.  We  do  W  for  velocity. PAW  there, is  the  rate  of flow  work  that's  being  transferred  in,  right? And  then  we  do  it  at  the  exit. We  can  have  a  density  of  the  exit,  right, a  pressure  at  the  exit, a  surface  that's  a  cross  sectional  area. So  we  have  an  area  at  the  exit, and  then  we  can  expand  it,  right? So  we  can  expand  that  some  distance. Again, that  delta  S  times  that  cross  sectional  area becomes  a  displacement  volume,  pdv. So  that's  the  work, or  we  can  have  the  rate  of  it. PA  times  the  velocity  that  the  fluid  moves. So  flow  work,  okay? Um,  so  the  total  work, so  that  W  dot  that  I  showed  you before  in  the  conservation  of  energy,  right, that  consists  of  useful  work,  all  right, what  we  would  call  shaft  work or  what  we  formerly just  called  like  boundary  work. You  know,  basically,  that's  useful  work plus  the  rate  of  flow  work  leaving the  system  minus  the  rate  of flow  work  that's  entering  into  that,  okay? And  the  formula  that's  the  best  way  I  have the  total  rate  of  work  transferred out  of  the  system  is  equal  to the  useful  work  plus the  dot  P  specific  volume  of the  fluid  stream  leaving  minus m  dot  PV  of  the  one  entering. And  the  thing  you  should  see  with this  is  that  we  have  a  P,  right? So  the  pressure  times the  specific  volume  that's  there,  all  right? And  if  you  remember  enthalpy, what's  enthalpy? It's  H.  Yes.  Thank  you.  Like  my  kids. Yeah.  So  they're  right  in  the  funniest  ways. Okay,  U  plus  PV,  P  there. And  so,  essentially  what we're  going  to  do  is  we're  going  to take  that  flow  work  portion. We're  going  to  combine  it  with the  internal  energy  of  that  flow  stream, and  we're  going  to  form  enthalpy  there. So  the  enthalpy,  the  whole  point of  the  enthalpy  is  you're  basically taking  flow  work  out  of  the  total  work  term. So  all  that's  left  is  useful  work. That's  what  I'm  doing  here. So  this  is  kind  of  a  mess, but  the  rate  of change  of  energy  in  the  system  is  the  rate that  we  transfer  heat  in minus  the  rate  of  work  leaving. That  is  shaft  work  flow  work leaving,  flow  work  entering, plus  the  sum  of the  mass  entering  times the  energy  stream  there, minus  the  mass  leaving times  its  energy  stream. And  if  you  put  this  whole  term into  the  W  dot, and  I  take  the  PV  terms, and  I  combine  them  here,  right? So  now  I've  got  rate  of  change  of  energy  and my  control  volume  is  he leaving  work  shaft  work, useful  work  transferred  out plus  all  of  that  U  plus  PV, which  is  enthalpy, kinetic  energy  and  potential  energy,  okay? So  we  take,  right, the  flow  work  out  of  the  total  work, and  then  we  form  enthalpy in  the  fluid  stream,  all  right? And  that's  a  more  natural  way to  introduce  enthalpy,  right? This  is  actually  the  way  you should  introduce  enthalpy is  through  is  actually  through  this  analysis, because  it  has  a  lot  of  utility,  right, much  more  than  the  other  one,  okay? Um,  Yes. So  if  you  want  to  compare  and  contrast, so  here's  the  conservation  of energy  when  we  do  the  enthalpy  form. So  we  have  the  useful  work,  right? Notation  with  that. If  you  go  with  the  notation  of internal  energy  in  the  flow  term, this  w  dot  is  the  overall  work,  okay? So,  um,  you  know, so  I  can  show an  example  because  I  get  a  bit  of  time. I'll  show  you  an  example  of  how  it  is. So  let's  think  about  a  turbine,  right? So  I  have  a  turbine,  um, And  we  can  apply this  conservation  of  mass  and  which  we introduced  today  and  the  conservation of  energy  principle  for  an  open  system, which  we  have  today,  alright? Okay.  All  right. Okay,  so  what  does  it  look  like  a  turbine? You  have  a  star  and  a  rotter. A  rotter  rotates,  a  star  stays. You  start  off  with  a  very  compressed  region. So  the  smallest  part  of  the  turbine  is where  you're  most  compressed, and  then  it  expands. So  at  some  schools, that's  like  a  question  they  ask  on  the  final. They  take  you  the  shade a  turbine  and  they  say, what's  the  front  and  the  back? And  then  some  people  don't  know. So  you  start  off  very,  very  compressed  and you  leave  it  is  the  opposite  of  a  compressor. A  compressor,  you  would  start  off highly  expanded  and  you  get  smaller. So  you  have  the  inlet,  we  have  the  outlet. And  what  we're  interested  in the  turbine  is  the  rate of  work  that's  transferred  out, and  that  we  call  shaft  work, spinning  the  shaft  that  spins, there's  a  force  associated  with  that. It  can  move  through  a  distance,  right. A  lot  of  times  you're  just  spinning  right a  generator  producing  electricity  from  this, but  shaft  work  is  what  you  want  to  know. Potential  in  kinetic  energies  are trivially  kind  of  small compared  to  the  changes in  enthalpy  that  happen  here. So  Delta  KE  and  Delta  P are  usually  pretty  small. And  then  these  things  are  usually  insulated, so  we  don't  have  heat  transfer. If  it's  poorly  insulated, you  may  have  heat  transfer  out, but  then  you're  losing  money,  right? So  the  way  to  analyze  this  is you  write  your  conservation  of  mass, right,  steady  uh, um,  under  steady  conditions. So  the  rate  that  mass  enters equals  the  mass  that  leaves. And  then  for  the  conservation of  energy,  the  same  thing. There's  no  change  in the  energy  to  the  control  volume. It's  adiabatic. There's  no  kinetic  or  potential  energy  terms. And  so  all  the  w  dot  S  is  is  dot,  right, because  that's  equal  to the  inlet  and  the  outlet, times  the  enthalpy  at the  entrance  minus  the  enthalpy  at  the  exit. Like,  that's  it. Like,  it's  so  simple. You  just  get  these  two  states. All  I  need  to  know  is  the enthalpce  and  the  dot, and  you  can  say  things  like,  that's a  ten  megawatt  turbine.  Okay? G,  yeah. That  must  be  the  states  that  you need  to  make  that  work.  Yes,  please. Name?  And  Andy. So  the  fluid  That's  it. So  the  thing  is,  it  has. It  can  come  in  with  a  velocity. It's  going  to  leave  with  a  velocity,  okay? But  when  you  go  in  and  you  actually calculate  in  joules  how  much  that  it  is, it's  not  really  comparable  to the  difference  in the  enthalpies  that  are  there. So  the  square  of  that  velocity, if  you  now  compare that  with  the  difference  in the  enthalpyce  in  these  kinds of  problems,  it's  not  there. One  place  where  it  can happen  is  when  you  get  into  nozzles. So  in  nozzles,  that's  the  whole  point,  right? The  whole  point  of a  nozzle  is  that  I  take  a  lot  of enthropy  to  start  and  I  convert  all  of  it, all  of  it  into  velocity. So  you  can  design systems  where  you  make  that, or  you  could  design a  system  where  you  want  to,  you  know, take  all  of  the  enthropy  and  convert  it into  potential  energy. Like,  these  can  be  done. Yeah.  Okay.  But  you  could  double  check. You  could  go  in  and  put  some  velocities  in. Maybe  that's  homework.  You  know, next  time,  come  and  tell  me. Okay?  Other  questions  about  this  until  now? Okay.  Um  Yes, so  here  you  can  go  through  and  do  it. So  this  would  be  some  numbers. You  know,  for  Andy,  he  could  go  in and  put  10  meters/second  here, 100  meters/second  here  and  say  how different  the  work  would  be. But  if  we  neglect kinetic  and  potential  energy, and  we  assume  it's  adiabatic, that's  going  to  be  the  formula for  the  shaft  work. And  so  all  you  need  to determine  is  H  one  and  H  two. So  that  whole  part  about  Pi  kill, why  did  we  care  at  all  about  states,  right? You  know,  I  put  in the  two  conditions  that  I  know. The  other  two  conditions  that I  know,  dot  notation,  right? I  basically  get  the  enthalpy  out  of  it. So  here  we  have  a  superheated steam,  so  high  pressure, 6  megapascals,  400  degrees  C, a  good  quality  steam  coming  in. Um,  we're  leaving  as  a, um,  a  saturated  liquid  vapor  condition. So  90%  vapor  and  much  lower  pressure,  okay? Um,  And  that's  good,  right? We  have  a  huge  difference  between 60  bar  to  0.2  bars, you  know,  that's  going  to  produce  a  lot  of work  out  of  the  system. But  by  knowing  here the  pressure  and  the  quality, you  have  complete  information of  the  system,  right? You're  going  to  be  able  to determine  the  enthalpy  by the  book  tables  or  Pi  color  there. That's  how  it's  represented  on a  TV  diagram,  right? So  superheated  out  here. We're  showing  the  isobar, and  then  we  end  up  under  the  dome here  with  the  saturated  vapor.  Okay. Um,  I  just  some  numbers  with  this. So  if  I  have  a  bit  of  time,  I  do. Um  So  the  numbers  that  I  have, maybe  am  I  going  to  be  able  to just  show  this  or  is  it  going  to  look  wonky? Okay,  now  it  looks  good. I  don't  know  why.  All  right. Okay,  so  we  have  here,  right, for  State  one  State  one  Right? So  we  know  P  one  is  equal  to  our  60  bar, T  one  is  equal  to  400  degrees  C. With  this,  because  it's  in the  superheated  region,  right? I'm  going  to  be  able  to  determine  everything including  my  enthalpy, my  H  one,  right? For  my  state  two, Let's  say  we  can  turn  H  one, and  we  can  determine  also the  specific  internal  energy U  one,  right? For  state  two,  of  P  two  is  equal  to  0.2  bar, and  the  quality  of  the  vapor  is  equal  to  0.9. Again,  from  this,  I  can  know  H  two, and  I  can  also  know  U  two  there,  okay? And  we  set  the  W  dot  shaft, so  the  useful  work was  equal  to  the  mass  flow  rate, which  is  also  given as  4,600  kilograms  an  hour. All  right,  that's  going  to  be  equal  to  H one  minus  H  two. If  we  do  the  substitution, what  you're  going  to  end  up  with is  a  let  me  look  at  this. This  is  like  that. That's  a  big  value. What  I'm  going  to  end  up with  here  is  one,  zero, 28,  102  8  megawatts,  right? So  basically,  at  this  case,  that's  a  massive. It's  a  massive  power  plant. It's  like  a  gigawatt  of  power  plants. No,  I'm  sorry.  Hold  on.  No,  no,  no. Wait  a  second.  I've  multiplied  it  in  1,000. So  if  I  put  this  in,  what  you're  going  to end  up  with  is a  1.03  megawatt  power  plant. That's  more  reasonable,  right?  Yes. Okay.  So  now  the  thing is  now  we  want  to compute  the  total  work,  right? The  total  work. So  this  is  the  correct  one,  right? This  is  basically  what  you  want. But  you  can  go  right  with  the w.net  out  to  the  w  dot  total,  right? That  would  be  m.u1  minus  U  two, okay,  specific  volume  or internal  energy,  specific  internal  energy. And  if  you  substitute  and  you  have  that, you're  going  to  end  up  with  0.841. Let's  see,  megawatt,  okay?  And  that's  wrong. And  that's  not,  like,  a  little  bit  wrong, that's,  like,  wrong  by,  like,  a  mile. I  you  know,  there. So  1.0  megawatts  versus  0.84  with  it,  okay? And  so  that's  why,  you  know, we  go  through  we extract  the  flow  work  out  of  the  work  term. We  put  that  then  into  the  U  plus  PV. We  form  enthalpy. And  so,  with  all  of  these  systems, the  rate  of  work  transferred  out, the  rate  of  work  transferred  in, the  rate  of  heat  out, the  rate  of  heat  in  is  all  going  to become  dot  enthalpies,  okay? So  life  gets  simpler  in  a  sense, with  this,  all  right?  Okay. So  you  all  did  great  today. That's  everything  you  can do  after  the  lecture. I'm  going  to  close  here.  So  if  any  of  you have  any  questions, please  feel  free  to  come  up. Thank  you.
