So  we're  continuing  today  with  second  law. Again,  this  is  into  Module  two, so  this  is  not  the  stuff  that's  going  to be  tested  on  mid  term  one. If  you  have  questions  about  mid  term  one, I  mean,  my  first  thing  is  refer to  my  e  mail,  you  go  to  B  courses. There's  a  whole  page  on  mid  term  one  with all  of  the  information, including  when  you're  able  to start  making  reservations  with  the  CPTF. The  CPTF  is  going  to  be  proctoring  the  exam, which  means  you're  subject  to their  rules  of  engagement,  right? They  have  a  whole  website  there with  an  FAQ  for  students. I  mean,  I  would  say  is  pretty  exhaustive. So  before  you  you're  welcome  to  email  me  and, of  course,  talk  to  me,  but  I  would  say, please  check  that  information  before  then, you  know,  e  mailing  me  with  a  question. Okay,  good.  Are  there any  general  questions  before  I  get started  today  about  any  of  that? Has  anyone  looked  at  that  page  B  courses? Inspiring  and  not.  Okay,  cool. Alright,  so  we're  going  to work  with  again,  basically, some  of  the  applications  then of  the  Carno  cycle  and  using  it to  compare  the  performance  of some  systems  with  respect to  the  idealized  ones. So  it  is  like  Rubber  Mets  Road,  in  a  sense. There,  just  to  remind  you,  so the  Carno  cycle  was our  fully  reversible  system. So  it  consisted  of isothermal  and  adiobatic  sections, so  isothermal  heat  additions  in  an  expansion, adiobatic  expansion,  you  know, an  isothermal  and  adiobatic,  compression. And  again,  just  based on  the  exercise  we  did  before, You  can't  run  a  cycle, where  all  you  do  is  just  transfer  heat and  get  workout,  right? Well,  we  noticed  from  that  is  that  there's no  possible  way  to  extract work  from  such  a  system. So  the  beat,  nice  example  we did  it  at  the  end  there. So  it's  absolutely  necessary. If  you  put  heat  in,  you're  you're going  to  take  some  heat  out  there. The  game  that  we're  playing  is  that we're  doing  those  transfers at  at  different  temperatures. Run  it  in  reverse.  If  we  run  it  in reverse,  just  like  we  had  seen  before, if  we  take  something  like  a  heat  engine, which  is  running  clockwise  on  a  PV  diagram, and  we  run  it  counterclockwise. Instead  of  having  a  heat  engine, we  have  what's  called  a  heat  pump. So  I  mean,  in  Berkeley, as  far  as  I  can  tell,  there's  no,  like, real  refrigeration  or  heat pump  systems,  but,  you  know, the  most  common  one  I  would  say  you  observe, it  would  have  been  H VAC  like  for  cooling,  right? That's  a  heat  basically a  heat  pump  system  which  you  used  to  cool. Of  course,  a  refrigerator  is  the  same  thing, taking  and  trying  to  cool  the  space, you're  pumping  heat  out  of  it. The  neat  thing,  the  very  neat  thing about  this  is that  It's  not  like a  one  to  one  where  you  say, Okay,  I  need  one  unit of  work  in  to  move  one  unit  of  heat. The  neat  thing  about  heat  pumps and  refrigeration  is  that  normally you're  moving  three  units of  heat  for  every  one  unit  of  work  in. And  that's  the  name  of  the  game  into decarbonizing  heating  and  cooling systems  as  you  can  take  advantage  of the  fact  that  you're  creating  energy, you're  basically  moving  it,  right? Which  is  better  than taking  a  wire  and  saying  Oh, pass  a  current  through the  wire  to  heat  a  room. Actually,  that's  pretty  stupid. All  right,  so  don't  do  that,  right? Okay,  so  I  want  to  do  an  example,  though. So  the  first  one  I  would  like to  look  at  here  is kind  of  the  canonical  example of  energy  conversion. So  here,  what  I'm  showing you  is  a  steam  power  plant, which  is  still  how  we  produce a  majority  of  the  electricity  globally. You  take  heat,  you  transfer  it  in. You  boil  usually  water,  right? So  you  bring  it  to a  high  temperature  and  a  high  pressure. That  then  is  sent  into  a  turbine. So  here,  it's  expanding. You're  transferring  work  out. So  the  steam  is  very  hot  here,  high  pressure. Here,  it's  at  a  lower  pressure. That's  the  heat  addition. As  I  said  before,  if  you're going  to  put  heat  in  to  a  cycle, you're  going  to  have  to  take  heat out  if  you  want  to  get  work  out. So  you  take  the  heat  out  here. How  do  we  do  that?  This  device is  called  a  condenser, more  specifically  a  surface  condenser. The  way  that  and  we  cool  the  steam  here from  being  in  a  vapor  down  to  a  liquid. And  then  that  liquid  is  then  collected compressed  again  with  a  compressor  or  a  pump, and  we  send  it  back  in  to  the  boiler. Right?  This  Q  out  is  really  massive. So  about  half  the groundwater  in  the  United  States, we  take  out  every  year  passes  through this  device.  All  right? Half.  So,  there  is  a  huge  amount of  energy  transfer  that  is  happening. And  in  this  problem,  we're  going to  analyze  two  questions. We're  going  to  look  at  what's  the  power output  of  this  system? And  then  we're  going  to  analyze the  efficiency,  Ita,  of  this. So  what  we're  told,  this  is  my Poorly  rendered  version  of  this  system. But  here's  your  boiler, your  turbine,  your  condenser, and  your  and  your  compressor,  your  pump. There.  We're  told  that  we're transferring  in  energy  at  a  rate  of 280  giga  joules.  Per  hour. We're  told  that  the  system has  heat  losses  along  the  way. So  heat  losses  along  the  way of  generating  the  steam  and  passing  it through  our  Q  loss  is  equal to  eight  gig  per  per  hour. We're  told  that  the  Q  out from  the  surface  condenser  is  165. Diga  joe  per  per  hour, the  w.in,  we're  not told  in  this  in  this  problem. And  as  I  said,  we're  interested in  we're  interested  in knowing  the  w.net,  right, which  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  W  out  minus  the  w, which  I'm  showing  you  here. And  then  we're  also  interested in  the  efficiency. So  efficiency  here,  we're always  represent  with  the  Greek  letter  Eta  a. Here.  And  this  from  the  textbook, And  as  a  general  rule  with  Eta, it's  the  quantity  that  you  desire, divided  by  the  input. So  the  quantity  that  we  desire  here  is net  the  network  out. And  then  that's  going  to  be  divided by  the  energy  that we're  the  energy  that  we're transferring  in  there,  right? Cool. So  the  way  that  we  start  for  this,  so  again, we're  not  given  the  W  n, but  we  are  given all  the  details  on  heat  transfer. And  so  for  a  cycle,  so  the  net, the  net  net  here  is  going to  be  equal  to  the  net  net, the  net  heat  there. Is  a  question,  everything  good? Yes,  please.  Bryson. Oh,  because  you're  going  to  have  to pay  something  to  pump  here,  right? And  you  might  cheat,  right on  your  taxes  or  whatever, I'm  not  saying  you  would,  you  know, but  one  could  imagine,  you  know, fudging  some  stuff  here  to  try  to maximize  that  value  to  make  this  big. But  if  I  take  this  minus  that, there's  no  cheating,  right? Okay.  Yes,  please. So  the  question  is  about  this  symbol. I  would  just  refer  you  to  the  textbook, so  you  can  look  at  the  different  definitions, but  this  is  the  definition  of efficiency  for  a  heat  engine,  right? And  the  next  question,  I'm  sorry. That's  a  cycle.  So  if  you  remember, when  we  did  the  cycles, when  we  looked  at,  like, a  PV,  you  know, diagram  here  like  this.  And  I  don't  know. We  had  something  that  looked  like  this between  the  different  states,  right? The  area,  let's  say,  under the  curve  from  here to  here  with  some  value,  right? That's  the  work  in.  Let's  say we're  moving  in  this  direction. Then  there's  the  area  of  the  curve  under here  in  the  Right,  in  the  other  direction. And  so  the  net  work  out  is  basically the  difference  between  the  areas between  the  two  curves, which  turns  out  to  be  this,  right? So  that's  net  work. And  what  I'm  telling  you is  that  the  net  work  that  you  have  out, if  you  do  a  cycle  is  equal  to the  network  or  to the  net  heat  that  you  transfer  in. I'm  going  to  say  book  again,  but  I'm  telling you  here  that  that's  the  truth. Yes,  please.  Id. It's  a  loss.  It's  like  losses. So  imagine  it's  not  very  well  insulated. Usually,  pipes  have  insulation  around  it. And  but  there's  always  losses. And  so  here  this  represents  some  losses from  the  heat  that  we  transfer into  boil  and  make  steam. Steam  is  water  vapor, usually  at  the  high  temperatures. There's  some  heat  losses along  the  way  in  the  system, and  the  total  losses  is  that  8/hour. In  this,  I'm  just  telling  you, and  it's  usually  not going  to  be  something  I'm  like, it's  not  typical  in  a  problem  that  we  solve. Yeah. Other  questions? These  are  good  questions.  Alright. Okay.  Yeah,  so  that's  that. So  if  we  now  go  with  that  formula  that  I said  there  with  the  W  net  equaling  the  q.net. So  we're  talking  about  what's  going in  minus  what's  coming  out. So  what's  going  in  is  the  280  gigs  per  hour. And  then  this  is  subtracted by  what  we  take  out. So  the  first  big  one  is  165. Gigajoules  per  hour  at  the  surface  candenser, plus  the  eight  gigajoules  per  hour  in  losses. And  so  out  of  that,  what  we  have  is 107  gigajoules  per  hour, which  we  can  convert  into  watts  or  megawatts. On  hour  is  3,600  seconds. And  so  then  what  you'll  have  is 29.72  megawatts  is  then the  net  the  net  power  output,  right? All  right. So  I  mentioned  that  before,  but the  thermal  efficiency  of  a  heat  engine. This  is  how  the  book  usually  writes  it e  to  sub  TH,  like  that. This  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  This is  the  way  the  book  writes  it? I'll  then  put  it  into  rate  form. The  work  transferred  minus the  work  transferred  in, divided  by  the  heat  that  we  transfer. I  can  also  write  this  in  a  rate  form  where  we say,  w  minus  w, which  we  can  just  call  as  W  net divided  by  Q  n,  right? Yes. And  so  we  know  from  that, that  our  w.net  in  is 107  giga  joules  per  hour, and  our  q.in  is  what? 280,  right?  Yeah,  280/hour. And  so  we  end  up  with  8.2%. All  right? Yes,  please.  Name. But  when  we  talk  about efficiencies,  it's  the  ratio. So  here,  the  dots  is  not  going  to  affect my  efficiency  on  a  closed loop  like  that,  right? Because  Im  gon  to  have an  M  dot  into  the  boiler, into  the  turbine,  into the  surface  condenser  into  the  pump. And  anyways,  I'm  normalizing,  right? So  I  have  a  rate  of  the  work  transferred  out, and  then  the  rate  of  the  heat of  the  heat  transferred  in. And  so  from  these  definitions, I  don't  have  any  M  dots,  right? The  M  dots  are  going  to  be details  that  are  contained  within the  W  dot  term  or a  Q  dot  term  like  that.  That's  fair  question. Other  questions?  Name.  Luca. TH,  thermal, thermal,  TH,  I  think  for  thermal. Again,  this  is  like  the  textbook. This  is  the  textbook,  right? Other  questions?  Yes,  please. Q  Q. So  why  would  QNs Q  would  be  Q  minus  Q.  Q  and  not  the. Something  like  that,  right? I  met like  a  Yeah. Yeah.  Q  Q  I'm  with  you. Yeah.  No. This  is  fair.  This  is  fair. But  I  guess  the  point  is  that we,  with  this  system, our  mindset  is  that  we  expect  you  know, that  we're  going  to  be  getting  like  a net  work  out  of  it,  right? And  then  that's  going  to  be like  a  positive  quantity if  we  do  our  jobs,  right? To  drive  that,  there  should  be some  net  heat  that's  transferred  in. So  I  think  like  first  law. So  I'm  balancing  like  what  I'm getting  out  versus  what  I'm  putting  in. And  so  in  that  case,  this  is, to  have  the  sign  convention,  right? With  positive,  you're  going  to  have some  network  that's  out, and  that's  going  to  be equal  to  some  net  heat  that  we transferred  in  in  the  context of  a  steam  turbine. Yeah.  Yes,  please. Instead  of  just  Q.  Oh, rate  is  what  I'm  given. So  on  this  problem,  I'm  given  a  rate. So  that's,  you  know, sometimes  you  dealt  the  card  you  have. So  in  this  case,  the  cards  that we  were  dealt  were  rates. Yes. I'm  saying  they're  equivalent.  So  if you  look  at  the  textbook  and  you  look  at  it, I  can  either  write  thermal. So  this  is  I  want  to  say  here  textbook. So  when  you  first see  thermal  efficiency  introduced, I  looked  at  it  yesterday. This  is  how,  you  know,  Sangles  writes  it. And  what  appears below  that  has  also  then  a  rate form  within  in  the  same  chapter. So  either  way,  you can  define  the  efficiency  in  either  way. I  started  with  this  for  completeness, and  then  I  write  for  you  the rate  format  of  it. Yes,  please. So  this  is  we're  not  even  talking  ideal. We're  just  talking  efficiency. So  this  is  like  the  definition of  the  efficiency  of  a  heat  engine,  right? And  heat  engine  is  broad. Don't  think  just  your  car  engine. That  cycle  is  also  a  heat  engine. I  put  heat  in,  and  I  get  work  out,  right? Great.  Alright,  so  that's  problem  one. All  warmed  up.  Problem  two. Let's  cool  ourselves  down. Alright? Um Alright. Okay.  So  in  this  problem, we're  given  a  refrigeration  cycle. So  to  remind  you refrigeration  cycle  consists  of four  components.  We  have  a  compressor. We  have  two  heat  exchangers, one,  which  is  on  the  hot  side,  the  condenser. This  is  like the  hot  side  of  your  refrigerator, if  you  ever  put  your  hand  towards  it, so  you're  transferring  heat  to  the  air, the  throttling  valve  or  expansion  valve, so  that's  the  yhopic  process. And  then  you  have  another  heat exchanger,  which  we  call  the  evaporator. This  would  be  like  the  inside  of  your  fridge, the  cold  coils  that  are  in  there. If  anyone  wants  to, they  can  click  on  that  link, that  will  pull  up  how  I  pull all  the  properties  for the  refrigeration  cycle  here. And  what  we're  asked  is we're  interested  in  the  heat  load. So  we're  asked  basically, what  is  the  Q  dot the  Q  dot  H  that  we  will  have. And  what  we're  given  are the  states  on  either  side  of  the  evaporator. So  here, the  working  fluid  that  you  have  here, the  most  common  one  is  called  r14  A. So  you  have  here  this  state  where  it's  very cold  after  the  evaporator  and  this  pressure, and  then  prior  to  it,  at  this  state, you  have  the  same  pressure  and a  vapor  quality  of  20%. And  Why  this  works  is  that  essentially, what's  coming  in  here  is  something that's  mostly  a  liquid, but  is  primed  to  boil,  right? So  you  have  a  huge  change  in  enthalpy, whenever  you  go  from  a  liquid  to  a  vapor, so  it  can  take  up  a rather  large  amount  of  heat. So  it's  basically  a  boiling  process  through the  heat  exchanger  there,  right? Other  things  that  were  given  we're told  how  much  work. In  addition  to  that,  we're  also  told the  work  rate  with  it. And  I'm  going  to  give  some  numbers  according to  convention  of  how  I'm  usually  doing  it. So  let's  say,  here's  our  compressor. So  we  have  our  w.in  here.  All  right. Just  prior  to  the  compressor, we  usually  call  this  state  one.  Or  I  do. After  the  compressor,  we  have  state  two, so  we  have  a  work  transfer  process  here. Then  we  come  to  our  condenser. So  the  idea  with this  is  that  you  pretty  much  like really  squeeze  the  liquid a  lot  to  get  it  to  condense,  right? So  you  basically  from  a  vapor  into  a  liquid, and  you'll  get  a  lot  of heat  that  you  can  transfer out  in  In  refrigerators  with  the  Q  dot, we  don't  normally  we  don't  call  it q.in  in  Q  dot  out. Usually  what  they  call  this  is  Q  dot. So  that's  Q  dot  on  the  hot  side. Again, I'm  following  the  convention  of  the  book. We  come  down  to our  throttling  valve  here,  again, where  we  get  the  big  change  in  enthalpy and  big  temperature  swing. So  that's  12.  This  is  state  three. And  then  after  the  throttling, we  have  state  four. And  then  again,  we have  another  heat  exchanger. And  here  we  have  the  Q  dot  from  the low  temperature  side  q.lq  dot  L  there,  right? Good.  All  right. So  our  W  dot  we're  told  is  600  Watts. The  other  thing  that  we're  told  is what  is  the  coefficient  of  performance. So  as  I  said  before, in  the  thermal  engines, you're  interested  in  the  work, the  network  you  can  get  out, divided  by  the  heat  that  you  transferred  in. With  refrigeration  systems, you're  interested  in how  much  heat  can I  transfer  from  the  cold  side, divided  by  the  work  that  I  put  in,  right? Now,  as  one  aside,  efficiencies, thermal  efficiencies  and  all  of  that are  always  is  going  to  be  basically, less  than  or  equal  to  one. A  COP,  what  we call  a  coefficient  of  performance, is  always  greater  than or  equal  to  one,  right? So  a  COP  is  defined  as Q  divided  by  W  n,  right? All  right.  And  oh,  one  other  thing. The  other  thing  is  that  we're  told in  this  is  that  the  COP  of this  system  is  1.2,  right? Good.  So  the  first  step is  that  we  can  calculate  what is  and  what  we recognize  from  that  is  that  our  Q dot  L  is  then equal  to  the  Wt. Times  the  COP. So  this  we  already  have,  right, because  we  have  the  w.in,  and  we have  the  COP.  We're  also  given. The  next  thing  we're going  to  do  is  we're  going  to look  at  our  states. So  for  State  one,  again, just  before  the  compressor, we  know  P  one, and  we  know  and  we  know  T one  and  from  our  property  tables  there. Again,  you  can  click  on on  the  link  and  look  at  that, but  from  the  property  tables, we  know  that  the  enthalp  at  State  one  is  then 382  kilojoules  per  per kilogram  at  state  four. State  four  is  then  just  before the  evaporator. We  know  the  pressure,  so  we  know  P  four, and  we  also  know  the  quality. Then  with  these  two,  we're  also  able  then  to determine  the  enthalp  at  state  four, which  is  2,208.0  0.9, p  per  kilogram. All  right. We  can  determine  how  the  mass  flow  rate from  these  details, which,  if  I  have  to  mention  is something  you  wanted  us to  determine,  as  well. So  the  Q  dot  L,  right? Now,  remember  here,  we're  in  this  system, if  you  were  going  to  do  the  you  know, the  control  volume analysis  of  the  evaporator. Let's  say  this  is  our  evaporator. This  is  our  S.  This  is  our  S  one. Here's  our  control  volume. We  know  that  we  have an  M  dot  that's  coming  in. We  assume  that  this  is  under steady  state  operations. We  have  the  same  M  dot  that's  coming  out. There  is  no  work  transfer  here,  right? There's  no  work  transfer  that's  happening  in a  in  a  heat  exchanger, there's  just  heat  exchange. All  right.  So  you're  only looking  at  heat,  right? So  we  have  a  Q  dot  L  that's  coming  in. So  if  we  were  going  to  look  then  at, you  know,  w.in,  you  know, plus,  q.in  plus  m  dot,  you  know,  hP  in, you  know,  is  equal  to  W,  you  know, dot  of  the  ent  leaving, or  you  would  write  is  you'd  have  Q  dot  L. Is  equal  to  this  mass  flow  rate  times H  one  minus  H  four.  All  right? If  you  got  the  order  wrong  with  this, what  would  happen  to  your  Q  dot? What  happens  if  you  flip  H  four  with H  one  based  on  what  you  see  there? Is  you  Q  dot  positive or  negative?  It's  negative. Alright?  So  just  check  yourself  with  that. At  these  points,  you  just  say,  Oh, I  got  a  negative  value. Let  me  think  for  a  second. All  right?  You  know, if  I  have  a  higher  enthalpy,  you  know, there  probably  that's the  one  where  it's  gained  heat, he's  been  transferred  to  it,  so  likely that's  going  to  be higher  than  the  one  that  enters. Oh,  yeah,  that's  right.  You  know,  swap  it. I  think  there  was  a  question. I  saw  a  hand  raise. COP. So  COP,  I  refer  you  to  I'm sorry  today  to  say  that  I refer  you  to  the  textbook, but  it  does  a  much  better job  explaining  than  I  do. But  what  the  coefficient  or  performance  is  is our  way  of  ranking the  performance  of  the  system,  right? So  I  said  in  the  thermal  engine, that's  the  ratio  of  the  workout, that  workout,  divided  by  the  heat  in. In  the  case  of  a  refrigeration  system, what  you  care  about  is  keeping the  refrigerator  cold  for  the  least  amount  of money  or  work  that you  can  put  in.  And  so  that's  what  this  is. It  is  by  definition  equal  to the  heat  transferred  from  the  cold  side. So  basically  the  we  call  the  evaporator. What  you  could  envision  is basically  the  inside  of  your  fridge, divided  by  the  work transferred  into  the  compressor. That's  the  noisy  thing,  right? That's  in  the  fridge  with  it. That  is  the  definition  of  the  COP. So  when  it's  very  large, it  means  that  you  get  a  lot  of  cooling, you  transfer  a  lot  of  heat for  very  little  input. Alright?  And  it's  not a  violation  of  the  first  law,  right? Okay. Great.  So  we  have  that  with the  QL.  If  you  rearrange  then,  right? We  have  m  dot  is  then  equal  to  Q  dot  L divided  by  one  minus  four. If  we  went  and  we  substituted  the  values, which  again,  you  can  refer  to  the  notebook. What  you  would  have  there  is  that  0.0  041 kilograms  per  second  is then  your  mass  flow  rate. And  then  if  we  come  to the  final  part  of  the  question,  which  is, we  want  to  know  what  do  we want  to  know  what  Q  dot  is. For  this,  I'm  going  to  slide  over. So  our  w.net,  right? So  the  network  that  we transfer  in  is  then  going  to  be equal  to  the  u  Q  dot  eight. So  the  heat  that  we  transferred  out  of  this minus  the  heat  that  we  transfer  in. So  this  is,  again,  also  a  formula given  in  your  textbook. And  so  what  you  would  have  then,  is if  you  rearranged  is  that  Q. Again,  this  is  for  a  cycle, refrigeration  cycle  is  n  equal  to the  W  net  n, which  in  our  case  is  just  the  work in  for  the  compressor, since  the  other  is  a  throttling  element, and  then  that's  plus  Q,  right? And  W  n  or  the  W n  I  think  it  was  600  watts,  right? Or,  this  was  600  watts. So  if  we  say  this  is  W,  then  this  is  equal to  600  600  watts. All  right.  And  the  Q  dot  L  was  just  the  COP. The  Q  L  is  basically  the  COP  times W  N.  And  so  if  you  substitute  that 1.2  times  the  600  plus  the  600, what  you're  going  to  have  then  is  one, three,  20  watts. For  the  heat  rejected then  into  your  environment. Basically, that's  the  heat  that you  would  feel,  you  know, next  to  the  fridge  or  whatever that's  that's  warm. Alright? Questions? Yes,  please.  All  right. So  the  question  is,  how  do  we know  the  QL  is  equal to  the  H  one  minus  the  H  four. So  what  I'll  do,  if  it's a  K  for  L  erase  this  and  then  go through  very  detailed  analysis of  the  control  volume. So  again,  a  heat  exchanger. This  is  a  system  where  we're  exchanging we'll  be  able  to  transfer  heat  or, you  know,  it's  an  open  system. So  our  mechanisms  of energy  transfer  are  heat  work  or  energy contained  within  a  fluid  stream  that's  in. So  our  DE CV,  if  we  call  this  our  control  volume  here. Dt  is  equal  to our  e  dot  n  minus t.  The  change  in  the  mass  of the  control  volume  with  time is  equal  to  the  m  dot  n  minus the  t.  For  heat  exchangers the  generally  operate  for  a  long  time. These  are  not  intermittent  things. So  we're  going  to  assume  steady, so  our  dt  is  zero. And  so  what  this  is  going  to  be  equal  to, this  is  basically  going  to  be  m  dot, and  then  our  e  dot  n  is  going  to  be equal  to  t,  right? All  right. The  formula  for  e  dot is  that  it's  going  to  be the  work  transfer  plus e  transfer  plus  m dot  minus  velocity  squared  by  two  plus  g  z. So  if  we  write  this  then  and substitute  for  e  dot  n  equaling  et. What  you'll  have  is  the  W  n  plus n  p  m.  And  I'm  not  going  to  write  n. I'm  going  to  write  m  dot  because  for the  study  case  is  n  p  WN  squared, which  is  velocity  plus g  z  in  where that's  the  height  then  of  the  mass  stream coming  in  is  then  equal  to wt  plus  Q  dot  plus  dot, which  would  be  dot  out,  but I'm  just  writing  a  m  dot, H  plus  W  squared  out  two  plus  g  z. All  right? And  if  we  look  at  this,  again, if  we  think  about  our  problem with  with  the  heat  exchangers, my  questions  would  first  be,  I  look  at  this. What  are  the  ways  that  I  see  energy being  transferred  in  and  out? So  first,  I  look  at  work. I  don't  see  paddles,  right? I  don't  see  anything  like  that. For  this  kind  of  system. These  systems  the  volume  doesn't  change, so  we  don't  have  PDV  that's  happening, but  I  don't  see  anything that  looks  like  there's any  work  transfer  happening like  it  would  be  for  the  compressor, which  is  up  there. So  our  W  dots  are  out. Now  we  have  our  QN  and  our  Q  out. The  heat  as  it's  being  drawn  there  is  being transferred  in  to  the  heat  exchanger,  right? So  that  means  that  our  Q  is  out. Now  we  come  to  our  M  dots. You  know,  we  can  look  at  our  Hs. We'll  leave  the  Hs,  there, especially  because  of  the  fact that  we  know  the  enthalpies, we've  determined  them  there. And  you  can  look  at  the  Ws and  you  can  look  at  the  G  Zs, but  In  general,  for  this, these  values,  the  differences  in the  enthalpies  are  very  large. Very  large,  relative  to anything  you  would  have  with changes  in  velocity. And  generally,  you  don't  have  changes in  height  in  the  heat  exchanges. Maybe  maybe  it  starts  at  the  bottom, and  it  coils  up  to  the  top, but  you're  talking  maybe  a  meter  half a  meter  at  best. This  is  not  going  to  be  a  player. This  is  not  going  to  be a  player  relative  to  that, and  we  did  that  exercise  in class,  right?  So  this  is  out. All  right.  And  so  if  we  rearrange  this, what  we'll  have  then  is  our  q.in, is  then  equal  to. We  have  on  the  right  hand  side  or  m  dot, and  then  we  subtract  from  the  H  n,  right? And  the  H  at  the  out  is  at  state  one. So  this  would  be  H  one, and  the  H  N  is  then  H  four.  All  right. So  it's  I  know  that's  a  lot  there  to  take  in. You  can  start  from  this  very  big  formula. But  there's  a  lot  of  things  that  you  can basically  whack  out  and  take  away. And  the  more  that  you  do  this,  the  more repetition  you  have,  the  more  natural. I'll  be  more  instinctive  to  drop  terms, and  it'll  be  like  second  nature. I'll  say,  Oh,  that's  just  gonna  be M  dot  Delta  H.  All  right? Yes,  please.  Evan.  It  does  have  a  WN. So  I'm  saying,  This  is  also  a  good  point. I'm  breaking  down  I  would  break  down  each  of those  four  elements  into four  different  control  volumes if  I  want  to  do  the  analysis. So,  in  the  case  of  the  compressor, that's  an  excellent  point. You  could  repeat  the  same  exercise. ABL  use  blue  to  slash  there. It's  like  Star  Wars. I  don't  remember  who  is  blue. Anyways.  So  there  we  got  the  WN. And  what  don't  we  have  then? For  the  compressor.  If  I  drew a  control  volume  around  the  compressor, what  terms  would  you  drop? Emilia.  Say  it  again. W  out  is  gone.  What's  another  one? Q  in  and  out. And  probably  the  Alright. And  so  that  leaves  us  with  aw.in. Maybe  I'll  write  it  here  just  so  it's. So  that  would  leave  us  with  a  Wt. Oh,  that  marker  is  terrible.  U So  that  is  the  W  n, which  is  then  equal  to  an  m  dot, I'm  sorry,  m  dot  H  minus  n.  Alright. So  now  we're  seeing  a  theme  here,  right? A  H  minus  and  HN. O  H  then  is  at  state  two,  right? That'd  be  H  two,  and our  H  N  is  then  H  H  one,  right? And  therein  lies  the  utility  of  the  entop. For  a  lot  of  this, all  you're  going  to  end  up  with is  m  Delta  H. Finito.  All  right? All  right?  And  the  reason  why  hopes powerful  is  that  we've included  the  flow  work  in  there. Remember,  it's  the  U  plus  the  PV. So  we've  taken  that  work  portion that's  the  flow  work. We've  contained  it  in  there. So  when  we  look  at  things  like  the  W  dots, it's  really  the  shaft  work,  right? The  useful  work  in  or  out  that's  that. Alright?  Good  questions.  Yes,  please. On  the  left  Q  in. So  the  big  one. So  I'm  going  to  say  I'm  going  to try  to  answer  in  the  best  way  that  I  can. The  black  text  here  is  canon. The  black  text  is  like  this  is  truth,  right? Now,  you  can  take  this, and  you  could,  I  guess, conceivably  look  and  analyze every  single  position  along that  whole  thing  and, you  know,  and  look  at  how  energy is  coming  in  or coming  out  out  of  a  control  volume. If  I  drew  a  box  around the  entire  thing  there, I  suppose  what  I  would  see  is that  I  would  see  a  heat  out. I  would  see  a  heat  in, and  I  would  see  a  work  in. And  if  I  knew  the  heat  out  and  I knew  the  heat  in  and  I  knew  the  work  in, I  could  calculate  my  COP and  most  of  the  stuff that  I  would  need  there. But  in  doing  that,  and  that  would  be  great. But  a  lot  of  times  you're not  given  that  information. A  lot  of  times  you're  there  and  you  measure a  pressure  at  some  point and  the  temperature  at  another  point, and  a  pressure  at  one  point  in the  temperature  at  another  point, and  so  on  and  so  forth. And  the  point  is  that  you  in  order  to  build up  to  be  able to  know  the  heat  and  the  workout, you  basically  analyze  the  points in  front  in  front  of or  after  the  heat  exchanger. The  points  just  in  front  of or  just  after  the  compressor. Same  for  the  condenser, same  for  the  expansion  valve. And  then  you  build  up  that  knowledge on  what  Q  dot  is, what  Q  dot  L  is,  what  W  N  is. So  you  could  definitely  go  and draw  the  box  around  it. You  would  end  up,  as  you  pointed  out  with  the w.in,  the  QN  in  the  Q. And  the  rest  of  that  stuff would  be  irrelevant  because  there  is no  mass  transfer  in  or  out  if  I draw  the  control  volume around  the  entire  system. But  we  don't  normally know  a  priori  what  the  Q  dot  L  is. The  W  dot  N,  you  probably  could. You  could  probably  measure  that  and  know  it, but  you're  probably  not  going  to know  the  Q  dots  there. And  that's  why  we  go through  this  process  here. But  that's  a  great  question. Yeah,  yeah,  but  that's  fine. But  the  thing  is  that  what  you're looking  at  there  is  the  whole  system. And  what  I'm  drawing  here is  just  the  evaporator. Right? What  I'm  drawing  here  and just  for  the  recording,  right? What  I'm  drawing  here  is  the  evaporator. All  right? I'm  not  drawing  the  entire  refrigeration system  when  I  analyze  it. Yeah.  Other  questions?  Max,  right? Yeah.  Plan.  Yeah. The  whole  system. Yeah,  I  think  I  thought  about  this, too,  and  I  believe  it's  from  like the  whole  system. It  would  be  like  drawing  what  she  said  there, if  you  drew  then  that  control  volume  around the  whole  power  plant, that's  like  the  Q  loss, the  net  losses  from  the  whole  system. Realistically, it's  probably  the  losses  between the  boiler  and the  turbine  where  it's  hottest. But,  yeah,  it  could  be  losses  anywhere along  the  whole  cycle. Yeah.  So  in  that  first  one, and  maybe  that's  a  great  way. When  I  teach  this  next  time,  I might  use  that  as  an  example  of  drawing the  control  volume  around  the whole  system  because  that's really  what  we  did then  for  the  power  plan  was  we drew  the  control  volume, really  the  whole  thing  there. We  had  the  heat  in  the  heat  lost, and  then  the  workout,  the  net  workout. Yeah.  Yes,  please. Yes.  Yes.  Yes. The refrigeration Refrigeration, refrigeration,  refrigeration. I  want  to  be  thoughtful about  my  response  here. U  So  refrigeration  so there's  a  lot  of  kinds  of  refrigeration. So  what  we  speak  about  here is  vapor  compression, vapor  compression  systems. I'm  trying  to  avoid  the  use  of the  word  entropy  because this  is  actually  what  we're. But  in  short,  with  a  refrigeration  system, you  ideally  want  something that  can  transfer  a  lot  of  heat  at one  temperature  right  out and  absorb  in  a  lot  of  heat  at  another  one. All  right?  So  in  a  vapor  compression  system, what  that  means  is  that  here, I  have  something  that  boils boils  at  the  temperature where  I  want  to  keep the  vegetables  cold,  right? So  what  is  that  zero,  you  know  or  five, if  you  got  the  freezer,  so  maybe it's  like  a  minus  ten,  right? You  basically  boil  at  that  temperature. And  then  you  want  it  to  condense  at a  temperature  that's  above  ambient,  right? Because  you  want  to  heat  transfer  out,  right? So  it's  got  to  be  higher than  the  temperature  here, second  law,  right?  Heat  diffuses. And  so  you  want  something  that  basically condenses  then at  a  temperature  that's  above  ambience. Let's  say  that's  45  Celsius  there,  right? And  so  then  you need  a  working  fluid  that  can  do  that. Water  Ms  the  boiling  point  of  water. Re  celsius  at  this  pressure  here  roughly, right? And  when  does  it  freeze roughly,  or  when  does  it  melt? Zero,  right?  So  that's  not  great. That's  not  real  great  as  a  working  fluid. So  then  you  end  up  picking  something that's  more  volatile,  more  volatile. They  used  to  use  things  like  counter intitively,  carbon  dioxide. Lighter  fluid,  right?  Propane,  you  know, basically  these  hydrocarbons  that are  there  ammonia,  ammonia. Nowadays,  what  are  used  are synthetic  refrigerants, they're  fluorocarbons. In  the  90s  and  before, they  used  to  use  some  other  nasty stuff  that  destroyed  the  ozone, and  they  got  rid  of that  and  then  they  made  another  thing. And  that  other  thing  is R  134  A  that  they  use  now. And  then  these  are  constantly  getting  changed because  they  have  what's  called global  warming  potential. Like,  if  CO  two  counts  for one  unit  of  trapping  heat, these  things  can  trans  for 100  or  1,000  as  a  value,  right? That  was  a  very  long  answer, but  that's  in  short  the  refrigeration. Alright?  Yeah. And  then  we'll  get  into  entropy, because  actually,  in  the  end, what  you  want  is  something  at a  constant  temperature  here  that has  a  huge  change  in  entropy, and  then  the  other  way. So  they  need  not  be  liquids. They  can  also  be  solids. So  you  can  take  things. There  are  solids  that  you can  stretch  that  get huge  changes  and  can absorb  or  release  a  lot  of  heat. And  usually  what  these  processes are  associated  with  is  phase  change. Anything  that  has  phase  change  can  take  in a  lot  of  heat  or  reject  a  lot  of  heat, but  there's  a  lot  of  research  that  goes  on into  trying  to  take  the  COP  value, which  here  we  looked  at  1.2. If  you  design  a  COP  with 1.2,  you  will  not  have  a  job. I  mean,  is  that  is  dog  shit. I  mean,  as  bad  as  a  bad  value. Three  is  good.  Three  is, I  think  what  most  vapor  compression  is. People  look  into  ones that  are  like  solid  states, so  no  moving  parts, and  those  ones,  you  can  get  up  to values  that  are  like  ten,  you  know? And  you  can  say,  who  cares? I  can  tell  you,  the  United  States, 50%  of  all  the  electricity  we consume  in  the  summer is  some  form  of  cooling. There's  a  huge  amount  of  effort that  goes  into  trying  to  make these  humble  humble  systems here  that  are  efficient. But  then  also,  if  you  look  at  the  other  side. If  you  run  this  thing  in  reverse,  reverse, meaning  that  you  are  taking heat  from  the  cold  outside, right,  and  then  pumping  it  into  your  home. That  sounds  insane,  right?  It's  cold  outside. How  could  you  have  heat?  It  works,  right? So  you  could  use  that  to  pump  heat. That  is  basically  one  of  the  ways that  you're  going  to replace  like  natural  gas. It's  hypothesize, you're  going  to  be  able  to  replace  like natural  gas  heating  with  some  form  of  that. It  won't  work  all  the  time, but  something  like  that. And  my  understanding  too  is  that Teslas  within  Teslas, I've  been  told  that  they  actually  have heat  pump  technology  for actually  warming  the  cabin, 'cause  that's  the  number  one  complaint of  electric  vehicles  is  that the  range  is  significantly altered  by  the  fact  that  you  have  the  heat. That's  the  number  one  complaint  there. And  so  heat  pumps  and  stuff  like  that, because  it's  one  unit  of  energy  can  move three  units  of  heat. Boy,  that  sounds  pretty  good. Instead  of  one  unit  of  energy  electric  coil, you  know,  heater,  that's a  pretty  good  deal,  right? Sufficiently  motivated  for  the  weekend, you're  gonna  dream  about refrigeration  and  compression. Okay,  with  that,  I'm  gonna  close  it. We  have  a  few  more  minutes. So  if  any  of  you  have  questions, please  come  up.  Thank  you  very  much.
