Yes. I Okay, I  got  310  or  210. So  I'm  going  to  get  started.  So  today  we're talking  about  pure  substances. Before  I  get  into  that,  at some  point  in  the  near  future, please  go  on  to  prairiet.prairietest.com, and  please  log  in. They  told  me  to  tell  you  that. So  yeah,  that  way, basically,  you're  registered  and  exist. You  exist,  but  then you  will  exist.  All  right.  Thank  you. Um  So  Gola  today, we're  going  to  talk  about the  concept  of  pure  substance. We  already  kind  of  gave  you a  brief  explanation  before. We're  going  to  do  some  illustrations  on some  diagrams  that  we're going  to  use  a  lot  during  the  semester. And  then  we're  going  to  come up  with  some  procedures  for how  we  determine  thermic  properties. I'm  going  to  teach  you  the  hand  tool,  right? And  then  I'm  going  to  show you  the  power  tool,  okay? And  hopefully  at  the  end  of  this, while  you  will  appreciate  the  hand  tool, you  will  only  use  the  power  tool, hopefully  in  this  class. Okay,  pure  substances,  again, sort  of  a  review. So  it's  a  pure  substance. I'd  like  to  talk  about  it  in terms  of  these  examples. It's  useful  for  me.  So  a  pure  substance here  would  be  something  like  nitrogen,  right? Pure  nitrogen,  air,  right? So,  all  right,  air, right,  is  mostly  nitrogen, but  you  also  have  some  oxygen  in  it,  right? But  there's  nothing  condensed. There's  no  condensed  phases. There  everything  is  basically  gaseous. Another  example  of  a  pure substance  would  be  like  water, and  this  could  be  water  that's coexisting  between  its  different  phases. So  we  get  a  vapor  and liquid  liquid  and  solid, you  know,  solid  and  vapor, but  no  other  components. As  soon  as  we  start  to  create multi  species,  multiphase  things. So  if  I  took,  for  example,  um, you  know,  a  balloon. If  I  took  a  balloon  filled with  air  that  I  blew  it  up  with, and  I  started  to  put  that, you  know,  into  liquid  nitrogen. Oxygen  will  condense  out  of  that. So  I'll  end  up  having  a  condensed, let's  say  oxygen  phase  there. You  know,  then  next  to  a  next  to  a  nitrogen, vapor,  and  in  that  case, it's  not  a  pure  substance. As  I  say  it  out  loud,  it  sounds  complicated. If  it  sounds  pretty  complicated, you  know,  probably  it's  not  pure,  okay? But  again,  these  are  some  examples. The  most  important  one  that  we're going  to  deal  with  for the  majority  of  this  class  is pretty  much  this  situation, either  this  situation  of,  like, air  or  this  situation of  water,  okay?  All  right. So  phases.  So  we're  talking  about  phases of  of  a  pure  substance,  right? This  can  be  a  solid,  a  liquid  and  a  gas. And  so  the  gas,  we've  talked a  lot  about,  especially  ideal  gases, which  are,  you  know, they're  like  billiard  balls  here,  right, liquids  you  know,  if  we  start  with  the  gas, the  most,  you  know,  let's  say, um,  you  know, random  and  moving  on  here towards  a  liquid,  right? The  difference  is  that  you  start  to have  molecules  that  attract  each  other,  okay? That's  what  separates  the  liquid from  the  gas,  right? So  this  is  actually  the  most  complicated, let's  say,  of  the  three. And  then  if  you decrease  the  temperature  further, you'll  end  up  with  a  solid,  right? And  classical  example  of how  to  visualize  a  solid, what  makes  a  solid  different  from  a liquid  in  a  gas,  right? The  atoms  are  in  a  lattice and  within  that  lattice, they  do  not  move,  right? They're  fixed, a  little  bit  of  time  out,  right? So,  you  know,  here's  where  you  are  and  you don't  you  don't  move.  You  know,  position. Okay.  But  they  are  allowed  to  vibrate,  right? So  the  way  that,  you  know, Einstein  visualized  this  is he  saw  it  as  like  springs,  right? So  if  I  take,  like,  a  bunch  of  these  atoms  in position  and  I  connected  them  via  springs, that  ability  to  oscillate  that, you  know,  would  allow  it  to then  store  energy,  okay? So  it  stores  it  through  vibration. Um,  This  type  of solid  here  that  I'm  drawing  is  called, actually, it's  called  the  Einstein  solid,  right? The  development  of  this,  this  kind  of fun  little  cartoon  here was  a  very  important  step  in the  history  of  quantum  mechanics,  right? So  one  important  result at  the  time,  you  know,  this  is,  like, early  1900s  is  in, you  know,  classical  mechanics  and  stuff. You  know,  in  their  models, they  said  the  specific  heat  was  a  constant. It  didn't  depend  on  temperature. Awesome.  Thank  you. I  need  more  there's people  after  me,  I  assume. So  thank  you.  We're  like the  bunny  now,  right? Actually,  they're  not  Yeah, they're  not  energizer,  though.  Okay. Anyways,  right,  so,  you  know, but  the  point  is  that  in  reality, the  specific  heat  did depend  upon  temperature,  right? And  so  to  explain  that. He  came  up  with  this  model. And  what's  neat  about  it is  that  in  order  to  get  that, essentially,  you're  quantizing,  right? So  basically,  um,  Also around  that  time,  Max  Plank, you  know,  it  had  already sort  of  stumbled  on  and it  quantized  to  avoid  the  UV  catastrophe. Einstein  took  a  bit  of that  and  then  was  able  with  this  kind  of nice  model  to  predict how  specific  heat  depends  on  temperature. And  then  after  that, he  did  his  photoelectric  effect. And  then,  you  know,  after  that,  those  are basically  two  pillars  of  quantum  mechanics. Okay. So  thermodynamics,  you  know,  was,  let's  say, one  third  of  one  half of  that  sort  of  development, which  then  went  much  later. Okay.  Okay,  so,  gases, liquids,  um,  solids,  when we  look  at  phase  changing, this  is  very  important  for  us. So  think  about,  you  know,  boiling  of  water. We  think  about,  you  know,  right  now, I'm  sweating  a  little  bit. It  feels  like  human. I  don't  know  anyway,  I'm not  evaporating  enough  apparently. But  the  point  is  that  a  lot  of  these, you  know,  prostates  are  very  important. The  way  to  view  this, okay,  let's  say  we  have  a  state  one. So,  we  have  a  pressure  that's like  1  atmosphere  in  20, um,  you  know,  C.  So  let's  say  this  is, you  know,  water  there, then  it's  going  to  be  as  a  liquid. We  start  to  heat  it  up  towards  100. At  some  point  around  there,  you  know, we're  going  to  start  to  vaporize or  we  start  to  heat  it  up. So  this  is  going  to  go  from  here  and it's  going  to  become  hot,  okay? It's  going  to  become  a  liquid. And  then  at  some  point,  as we  start  to  introduce  more  heat  there, we  start  to  evaporate. Okay,  maybe  even  boil  some  of  that  liquid. And  because  the  gas  there is  about  100  times less  dense  than  the  liquid, you  expect  expansion,  right? You  know,  and  then  beyond  that, continue  to  add  heat in  which  you  need  a  lot  of  it, right,  to  boil  off  all  this  liquid. Eventually,  you  end  up  with,  you  know, a  vapor  saturated  vapor. And  then  after  that,  you  know, we  get  into  a  very  hot  vapor, which  we  call  wet  for  water. Louder.  Steam.  Yeah,  it's basically  with  steam,  okay? But  the  volume,  the  point is  that  the  volume,  right, is  increasing  from  left to  right  in  this  process. Okay,  one.  Two,  um, If  I  take  for  a  pure  substance,  right, so  one  posture  is  if  I  take  for a  pure  substance  two  independent  properties, I  will  be  able  to  then  determine a  third  dependent  property,  right? We  showed  this  a  lot  with  the  ideal  gas. Are  you  thinking  about  ideal  gas? PV  is  RT. If  I  know  P  and  V, RPV  is  RT  there,  if  I  know  P  and  V, then  basically  I  know,  temperature, sort  of  a  simple  case. But  it  also  works  out  for, um,  for  water,  too,  right? And  so  here  this  is  a  three  dimensional  uh, representation  of  that,  okay? So  what  does  it  mean  to  have with  two  independent  properties, the  ability  to  compute a  third  dependent  property, that  means  there's  a  surface,  right? Basically,  I  have  a  surface, right,  where  I'd  be  able to  then,  you  know,  with  these  two, let's  say,  independent  on that  surface  that  exists, the  dependent  property,  right? Um,  This  is  what  Gibbs. So  Gibbs  was  obsessed  with  this. If  you're  taking  calc  three,  right, multidimensional  calculus, that  was  developed  for  this,  okay? It  was  developed  basically  for this  because  not  only  do  you  know, let's  say,  the  pressure,  I  know specific  volume  and  temperature, therefore,  no  pressure. But  if  I  start  to  take  derivatives, at  that  point,  I  get  other  things. I  will  determine  my  other  properties  there. So  it's  very,  um, it's  a  very  important,  um,  you  know,  thing. So  again,  the  point  is  that in  this  case,  you  know,  the  map, so  here,  here,  and  let's  say I  end  up  at  this  case,  all  right? Um,  this  type  of  representation. So  apparently,  um,  Maxwell, so,  you  know,  of  Maxwell's  equations, apparently  like  this  a  lot  and  I  guess tried  to  make  up  a  version of  this  to,  like,  give  to  Gibb. So  a  gift.  So  thermtanamsis, apparently,  also  give  gifts. And,  so  Maxwell  had made  up  kind  of  a  three  D  mockup of  this  kind  of  of  of  a  surface  here  to, um,  the  Gibb,  all  right? But,  yeah,  like  I  said,  as  soon  as  you  can have  two  of  these  things for  a  pure  substance, and  you  find  yourself  on  that  surface, you  know  everything, everything  about  the  state. Okay,  what  are  key  points  on  this? So  if  we  want  to  orient  ourselves because  this  is  kind  of  complicated. The  one  that  you  should  all  know from  chemistry  is  the  triple  line. So  what's  the  triple  line  or  triple  point, right?  It  is  where  ice. So  the  solid,  the  liquid  and the  vapor  can  coexist. So  that's  here. The  second  important  point is  what's  called  the  critical  point. We'll  go  into  this  a  little  bit more  today,  the  meaning  of  it. And  then  for  this  class,  sort of  the  three  phases or  the  three  regions  that  we're  most concerned  with  are  this  liquid, the  liquid  vapor  and  the  vapor,  all  right? So  I  can  kind  of  crop  that  out. So  if  I  crop  out  that,  let's  say, the  icy  region  there  or  the  solid  region, we  can  start  to  make  some  of the  PV  and  PT  or  VT  diagrams,  right? So  how  do  I  look  at  this  plot? So  this  is  for  water. So  P  and  V,  right? So  this  is  basically  a  cut  in  this  plane  in the  PV  plane  along  here. Um,  What's  in  the  dark  line here  is  the  liquid vapor  region,  the  saturation  line. That's  this  kind  of  parabolic  upside  down, you  know,  parabolic  line. Here  again,  you're  slicing, you're  basically  slicing  through  that. So  that's  the  line  that  you  see.  All  right. One,  two,  we  have  isolines,  right? So  if  I  were  to  make,  um,  You  know, if  I  were  to  basically  look as  a  projection  of, in  this  case,  instead  of  a  slice, if  I  did  a  projection  of  PV  and  I  just look  from  this  direction  towards  it,  right, we'd  see  these  kinds  of different  isolines,  which  are  here,  right? The  one  that's  denoted  in this  case  is  the  triple  line. So  this  kind  of  dash  line  that  you  see here  and  shoots  up  as  the  triple. I  also  have  it  over  200  Celsius, 300  Celsius,  all  the  way on  up  until  the  critical  point. What  you'll  see  in terms  of  the  regions,  right? This  is  vapor  to  vapor, vapor  liquid  to  vapor  liquid, and  then  liquid,  which  is  there. And  again,  the  critical  point, which  I'll  discuss  in  a  second,  right? And  as  usual,  if  you  want, you  can  generate  all  these  plots from  that  script,  right? Um,  This  is  the  TV  diagram. So  if  we  look  then  from  this  perspective, so  the  top  view,  basically. So  if  we  took  a  top  view perspective  of  this  plot,  again, we'd  still  get  the  same  dome, and  then  our  isolines  are  then  our  isobars, right,  lines  of  constant  pressure. So  here's  the  triple  line at  a  very  low,  you  know, some  hundreds  of  pascals there  all  the  way  on  up until  the  critical  point  for  water,  right? And  again,  vapor  liquid,  and  then  liquid. And  then  the  final  one  is  in  the  PT  diagram. All  right.  And  this  is  important,  okay? So  if  I  look  From  this  perspective, so  if  I'm  looking  from  temperature  on the  horizontal  axis  pressure  on  the  vertical, this  kind  of  vapor  liquid  region  that we  see  here  looks  like  a  line,  okay? It  looks  like  a  line,  right? And  so  if  I  start  to draw  the  isochres  so the  lines  of  constant  volume, right,  when  I'm  in the  vapor  region,  you  know, out,  you  know,  out  here, it  kind  of  makes  sense.  I  see  them  different. But  as  soon  as  I  get  to the  liquid  vapor  region, right,  they  collapse,  right? And  why  is  that?  Okay?  Why  is  that? It's  because  when  I  go  from  a  liquid, which  is  here,  I  have very  low  specific  volume,  right? I'm  dense.  I  have  very  low  specific  volume. When  I  go  to  my  vapor, I  have  very  high  specific  volume. I  I  have  low  density,  you  know,  with  that. And  when  I  look  from this  perspective,  I  just  see  a  line. So  I  have  a  huge  jump  in specific  volume  when  I  go  from my  liquid  to  my  vapor,  all  right? Why  does  that  matter?  So,  who  cares? Why  am  I  telling  you  about  that? Because  if  I  know my  temperature  and  my  pressure,  all  right? I  told  you  before,  pure  substances  with two  independent  properties, I  know  everything,  right? The  only  caveat  I'm  going  to  give  it  to you  is  that  when  you're  in the  liquid  vapor  region, temperature  and  pressure  are not  enough,  okay? In  the  liquid  vapor  region,  you  know, you  need  to  know  specific  volume and  pressure  or  specific  volume and  temperature,  right? And  it  has  to  do  with  the  fact that  when  I  boil  something, it's  going  to  boil with  constant  pressure,  right? You  make  brilla,  you  know,  at  home, you  know,  pasta  at  home, and  it  gives  you  directions,  you  boil,  okay? And  you  do  it  for  that  it's  super  repeatable. That's  why  it's  an  instruction  on  there, right? The  temperature  is  also constant  during  that  process. So  that  whole  process of  basically  going  from, let's  say, the  full  liquid  at  the  boiling  point. So  a  saturated  liquid, I'll  come  into  what  that  means  in  a  second, all  the  way  to  being  completely  evaporated. So  a  saturated  vapor, the  temperature  and the  pressure  are  constant. But  obviously,  something  is  changing. The  specific  volume  of that  mixture  is  changing,  okay? So  you  can  use  the,  you  know, so  when  your  liquid, when  you  vapor,  when you're  above  the  critical  point,  right? Any  two  of  these  pairs  is enough  for  you  to  map  out. But  I  want  you  to think  about  this  when  you  say,  okay, when  I  have  a  saturated  liquid  vapor  mixture, you  think  back  to  this  beautiful, you  know,  Maxwell,  you  know, looking  carved  solid  here, and  you  would  say,  okay,  look at  the  side  view  here,  right? I  know  that  PNT  is  not  enough  because  there's a  whole  bunch  of  states  into  the  page  there, you  know,  where,  you  know,  so it's  not  enough  information  to  it,  okay? I  feel  like  I  confused  you  all, but  it  will  make  sense  with  time.  Go  ahead. Are  there  any  other  regions where  you  aren't  enough? So  you  look  at  this. Basically,  if  you  look  at, um,  you  know,  the  diagram  here, I  would  say  that  this  is  the only  one  that  I  know  of  where you  have  that,  you  know,  well, it's  not  the  only  one,  right,  because  you can  also  have  a  solid  vapor, you  know, coexistence  with  the  same  sort  of  thing, right? You  basically  go  from the  low  density  of  that. But  aside  from  that,  you  know, if  you  look  at  then  solid  liquids, depending  on  the  density of  the  phase  transition. But  for  the  purposes  of  this  class, it's  the  coexistence  of  the  liquid  in the  vapor  region  where you  have  this  challenge,  okay? But  specific  volume,  you  cannot  go  wrong. So  specific  volume,  you  know, you're  not  going  to  go  wrong,  um, you  know,  with  that,  okay? Yes,  please.  Name,  by  the  way.  Sorry,  I'm. David.  I  do  not  have  plasma  on  this  plot. The  fourth  phase.  Yeah.  Okay,  cross  over  to, you  know,  your  physics  building  for  that. Other  questions?  Okay.  Yes.  So  how does  the  book  denote  this? So  what  did  I  tell  you? I  told  you  about  vapor,  liquid  vapor, liquid,  and  I  mentioned  a  critical  point. And  so  that's  the  terminology that  I  like,  okay? The  book  has  other  names. So  this  region,  so  I  show you  the  TV  diagram,  right? So  very  high  density  or low  specific  volume  high  density. So  you  have  a  liquid. The  book  a  lot  of  times  calls  this, like  a  compressed  liquid  region,  okay? All  right?  I  don't  know. Anyways,  it's  a  liquid,  right? It's  very  hard  to compress  actually  a  liquid,  right? It's  like  compressing  a  solid. You  can't  really  make  the  atoms  much, um,  you  know,  a  lot of  times  it's  incompressible, as  we  call  it,  right? So  you  have  compressed  liquid,  All  right. So  the  next  one  is  that,  again,  this  dome. So  we  call  this  a  dome. To  the  left  of  the  critical  point, we  call  this  as  a  saturated  liquid  line. What  does  it  mean? If  you're  anywhere  on  this  line, it  means  that  you  are  a  pure  liquid,  okay? At  the  critical  point  to  the  right  here, we  have  what's  called the  saturated  vapor  line. The  way  to  visualize  this is  you've  just  boiled off  that  absolute  last  amount of  liquid  into  a  vapor,  okay? Saturated  vapor,  a  right? Um,  region  in  between it  and  it  is  a  saturated  liquid  vapor  region. The  way  to  visualize  this  is  almost  like percent  evaporated  of  the  substance. So  zero  as  I  have  0%  evaporated, so  I'm  a  saturated  liquid. To  here,  I  have  100%  evaporated, so  I'm  the  pure  vapor. And  then  to  the  right  of  this  is  what's called  the  superheated  vapor  region, which  for  water  is  Steam. Steam,  it's  basically  steam  steam  here,  okay? And  a  lot  of  times  in the  plots,  too,  so  additionally, you  see  lines,  and  these  lines  are normally  denoted  some  constant  value. So  if  I'm  pting temperature  in  specific  volume, this  is  going  to  be  an  isobar. So  lines  of  constant  pressure, you  see  in  the  phase  change  region, so  the  saturated  liquid  vapor  region, that  the  temperature  is  constant. So  the  pressure  is  constant  and the  temperature  is  constant,  okay? Just  like  we  had  said  before. And  then  the  same  thing  with  the  PV  diagram. So  we  have  the  isobars are  which  are  temperature,  okay? Okay,  so  what  is  this  critical  point, alright?  Is  there  a  question? This  is  like  the  globe. I  don't  care  what  you  call  it, as  long  as  you  can  get  yourself  there,  okay? We  got  different  names  for different  countries  and whatever  and  languages. So  as  long  as  you  like,  you  know, are  at  this  GPS  coordinates  in  flatland  here, then,  well,  curve flatland's  enough  for  me,  okay? All  right.  Other  questions? That's  a  fair  question. Okay, so  what's  the  meaning  of  this  critical  point? So  we  can  talk  about  this. So  let's  say  I'm  at this  temperature  down  here and  let's  say  that  I'm  uh, um,  you  know,  and  we  analyze  this  line. So  here,  the  specific  volume  is  pretty  low, when  I'm  a  liquid,  and  then  when  I'm  a  vapor, the  specific  volume  is  pretty  high. The  difference  between  them  is relatively  large,  all  right? Now  I  start  to  move  up  in  temperature. The  liquid  specific  volume  it's  higher, and  the  vapor  specific  volume  is  lower. And  this  continues  on and  on  until  you  reach  up  to this  point  where  the  difference in  the  specific  volume, the  difference  in  the  density between  the  liquid  and the  vapor  cannot  be  detected  anymore,  okay? You  cannot  differentiate  between  them. All  right?  Does  anyone know  what  we  call  that  fluid? Say  it  again?  I  can't  hear. Sorry.  Liquid  vapor? No,  not  liquid  vapor. What  do  we  call  that  substance? Okay, it's  called  a  supercritical  fluid,  all  right? And  you  can  ask  yourself,  who  cares about  a  supercritical  fluid? Um,  You're  too  young  to  care  about  this, but  maybe  when  you're  older, you  want  to  drink  decaffeinated  coffee because  I  don't  know,  you're  wild. The  way  that  you decaffeinate  coffee  is  you  use carbon  dioxide  and  you  put it  to  a  high  temperature  and  a  high  pressure. You  make  it  super  critical,  right? It  turns  out  it's a  great  solvent  for  things  like  that. For  power  plants,  when  you  want  to get  to,  to  be  very,  very  efficient, it  means  to  run  at  very  high  temperatures. You  know,  they're  for  water. You  can  heat  water  also  above this  critical  point,  right, to  get  to  basically  higher  temperature  and pressures  to  more  efficiently, you  know,  generate  it,  okay? This  is  not  you  know, like  a  fourth  phase  of  matter. It's  still  a  fluid,  but it's  a  fluid  where  you  cannot differentiate  between  a  liquid and  a  vapor,  right? They  can't  be  distinguished. Um,  The  type  of  phase  transition. So  if  I  start  off, we'll  start  off  with  the  first  one. So  if  I  started  with  this  type  of transition  where  I  go  from,  like, a  liquid  to  a  vapor, we  call  it  as a  first  order  transition,  right? It's  a  big  change  in  the  density from  being  one  to  the  other,  right? It's  called  first  order.  1  second. When  we  talk  about  this  one  going  from a  critical  point  and  then  on  down. So  if  I  started  at  a  high  temperature, let's  say  constant  specific  volume, and  I  start  to  decrease  there, that's  a  second  order  transition,  okay? And  if  you  want  to  read  more  about  that, there's  beautiful  theories  of  Lev  Landau. He  was  a  phenomenal Soviet  physicist  who  did  a  number  of  things, but  also  looked  at  these  sort of  what  are  called  second  order, um,  you  know,  transitions. And  the  way  you  visualize  it  is,  again, you  start  out  with  very  small  differences in  the  density  or  specific  volume, and  then  basically  they  linearly get  larger.  Yes,  please. So  does  that  site  more of  that  have  more of  the  properties  of  a  fluid  or  a  gas? It's  a  fluid,  okay?  And  a  gas  and a  liquid  are  a  fluid,  okay? So  I  said  liquid,  and  I  said  gas. A  liquid  and  a  gas  are  both  fluids. Okay.  Other  questions? Read  about  Lando. Very  interesting.  Actually,  died very  young.  It  was  tragic. He  won  a  Nobel  Prize,  though. So  okay.  Um  Okay. Yeah,  so  we  talked  about  basically this  critical  point  where,  again, you  can't  differentiate  between the  liquid  and  the  vapor. So  the  PV  diagram. We'll  use  this  one  a  lot,  especially later  on  with  some  cycles. PT  diagram,  not  really  used  very  much. The  only  reason  I  show  it here  is  because,  right? Most  substances  would  look  like  this, but  water  is  a  tremendously  weird,  very, very  weird  substance,  where  the  ice  is  less, you  know,  its  sod  phase  is  less dense  than  it's  it's  liquid,  okay? So  basically,  that's  the  one  where it  bends  backwards, and  we'll  use  this a  little  bit  later  in,  like, we,  13. We  want  to  estimate,  you  know, how  much  energy  it  takes  to  evaporate. Okay.  All  right, that's  all  done.  We'll  come  for  a  second  now. So  again,  so  again,  pure substances,  two  independent  properties. You  know,  we  can  compute the  dependence  and  everything  after  that. Um,  The  hand  tool. So  the  old  fashioned  way  to  do this  is  the  property  table. So  here  we  have  34 of  them  at  the  back  of  your  book. If  you  were  to  pick  one  of  these, let's  say  table  A  four, so  saturated  water  and  temperature  table. What  you'll  see  here  is  temperature  with  it, the  pressure  associated  with  that, and  then  things  like  saturated  liquid, saturated  vapor,  because  remember, the  density  will  vary  continuously from  being  the  liquid  to  the  vapor, saturated  liquid  internal  energy, and  so  on  and  so  forth. Um  with  that,  okay? So  again,  you  have your  temperature  as  one  of  them, the  corresponding  saturation temperature  or  pressure, your  specific  volume  of  your  liquid, and  your  specific  volume  of  your  vapor,  okay? Why  is  it  F?  It's  not  F  because  it's  fluid. It's  F  because  it's  flusykit, okay,  which  is  German  for  liquid,  all  right? The  Germans  did  all  this,  right? So  not  my  fault,  okay? So  the  F  there,  again, if  you  want  to  go  and  do  an  old  school, you  know,  and  use  a  saw by  hand,  I  respect  that. It's  going  to  take  a  long  time, but  that's  the  F,  okay? The  saturated  vapor  is  G,  okay? And  the  G  is  then all  the  properties  of  saturated  vapor, and  gas  yet  gas. Gas  is  gas,  in  both  of  them,  right? So  you'll  see  things  like  VG, right,  which  is  then the  specific  volume  of  the  vapor. F,  specific  volumes  of  the  liquid, and  sometimes you'll  see  the  difference  reported. Sometimes  you'll  see  FG, and  that's  nothing  but specific  volume  of  the  gas minus  the  specific  volume of  the  liquid,  all  right. You'll  also  see  there  then  sort  of  this  HFG. We'll  get  to  what  H  means.  It  means  enthalpy. But  this  HFG,  the  way  to  think about  this  is  kind  of  the  difference at  constant  pressure. The  difference  in  or the  amount  of  energy  you  need  to  put  in, the  amount  of  heat  you  need  to  transfer  in  or the  energy  to  transfer  in  to boil  a  kilogram  of  liquid  water,  okay? So  for  these  conditions, it's  like  2,200  joules  per  gram  for  water, which  I  can  tell  you  is  a  lot  of  energy. It  takes  a  lot  of  energy  to boil  boil  water,  okay? Yeah.  And  so,  again,  if  you  go  in, like, a  typical  problem  that we're  going  to  work  on, you'll  be  given  things  like,  let's say,  temperature  and  quality. All  right.  So  you're  going  to  tell  me, Professor  Schutz,  you  told  me, like,  temperature  and  pressure. You  know,  these  are  pretty much  my  independent  properties. Sure,  but  there's  other  ones  that also  exist  there  that we're  going  to  get  into. One  of  them  is  called  quality,  right? And  there's  quality.  Alright?  So  when  I  say the  term  like  saturated  vapor and  saturated  liquid, the  quality  is  like,  how  much have  I  gone  from  being  a liquid  to  a  vapor,  right? So  if  I  have  a  quality  of  zero, I  am  a  saturated  liquid. If  I  have  a  quality  of  one, it  means  that  I  have  a  saturated  vapor. I  have  no  liquid, left,  mathematically,  right? It's  inside  of,  let's  say,  a  container. The  mass  that's  the  vapor divided  by  the  total  mass, and  it's  only  relevant  when  you're  in the  saturated  liquid  vapor  region,  okay? Cool.  So  again,  we  love  graphs  here  plots. So  here's  again,  TV,  all  right? I  want  to  know  this  property  at  B,  all  right? And  for  this  type  of problem  that  I've  given  you  here, essentially  what  I've  said  is  that  this  is a  temperature  of  85  degrees  Celsius. And  let's  say  at  the  moment that  this  is  an  equality roughly  sort  of  equality  of  some  value. This  looks  to  me  like  less  than  0.5, but  let's  say  that's  the  value. So  you  can  understand  then  by  giving  you this  temperature  and  giving  you  this  value, you  could  say  where  point  B  is,  right? It's  halfway  between  A  and  C  there,  okay? Again,  like  look  through  this  and, you  know,  and  understand  it. Again,  C  would  be  like  X  is  one, A  would  be  X  is  zero at  this  temperature,  right? So  yeah,  you  can  go  through  and  compute  it. So  if  you  looked  up  then,  you  know, you  could  look  up  in the  tables  then  at  point  C, what  would  be  the  saturated, um,  specific  volume  of  the  saturated  vapor. At  85  C,  you  could  look  up  what is  the  saturated  liquid. Specific  volume  at  85  C,  you  would  have  them. And  this  specific  volume in  the  middle  is  nothing  but Vg  X  plus  VF  one  minus  X. To  see  if  that  works  out,  if X  was  one,  right,  this  is  gone. You  have  the  specific  volume  of  the  gas. If  X  is  zero,  this  is  gone, and  you  have  the  specific  volume of  your  liquid  there. Okay. Yeah,  cool.  You  can  go  in  and  do  it. Again,  this  is,  you  know, my  best  attempt  at showing  you  essentially  what  it  is. So  you'd  find  that  table.  You  click  on  that. You'd  go  and  find  edge  85 C.  You  then  pick  out what  your  VG  and  your  VF  is, and  you'd  have  them  there,  okay? Cool.  When  I  was  a  student, we  like  programmed  all  this  in,  like, a  TI  83  calculator  to,  like, make  it  fast  on a  midterm.  It  was  brutal,  okay? Yeah,  so  that's  what  it  would look  like,  you  know,  VFVG. You  could  go  in,  substitute  that  value, and  then  you  would  end  up  with  1.4 kilograms/meter  cubed,  right? And  to  check  yourself  to  make  sure that  you  did  this  right,  right? That  specific  volume that  you  determined  there should  be  intermediate  between a  vapor  and  a  liquid,  right? If  it  was  less  than the  liquid  or  greater  than  the  vapor, you  did  something  wrong,  right? You  know,  with  it.  That's  the  kind  of critical  thinking  that  one can  do  for  such  a  calculation,  all? Quality,  right? All  right,  good.  Those  other  ones,  too. So  you  can  go  in  and  do  compressed  liquid. You  can  do superheated  vapor  for  these  things. So  this  is  what  a  temperature, you  know,  enthalpy  diagram, temperature,  internal  energy. These  are  two  other  sort  of  independent properties  that  we  can  use. If  you  wanted  to  use the  superheated  water  vapor, you'd  go  to  table  A  six. You'd  have  to  know  what  your  pressure  is. You  put  in  your  pressure. You  check  that  your  temperature  is greater  than  the  saturation  temperature, and  then  you  could  start  to do  what's  called  interpolation. You  start  to  interpolate  between  values. There's  compressed  liquid,  again, the  same  drill,  no  pressure. And,  you  know,  find your  temperature  the  closest one  and  either  select  it or  interpolate  with  it. Your  GSIs  will  take you  through  some  of  that  if you  have  questions,  okay? But  The  same  thing  essentially  hold. As  long  as  you  know  these  sort  of two  independent  properties, you'll  be  able  to  compute  everything. So  if  you  said,  I  have  a  problem  here  with 200  C  and  150  kpa, you  can  hazard  a  guess  that  like,  okay, the  pressure  in  this  room is  probably  close  to what  110  in  order  100  kpa. You  can  hazard  a  guess  that, okay,  maybe  the  pressure  is, you  know,  50%  higher, but  my  temperature  is  much  higher. 200  C.  You  could  hazard  a  guess  and  say, that's  probably  maybe  a  superheated  vapor. And  so  these  two  property  values together  are  going  to  be  able  to  tell me  everything  about  the  system,  right? So  then  what  you  can  do  right  in Python  is  just  put  your  substance, water,  put  T  is that  temperature,  P  is  that  value. And  then  with  dot  notation, you  define  this  object,  and  then you'd  know  everything  t  dot  U, internal  energy,  t  dot  V, specific  volume  and  so  on  and  so forth  with  that,  okay? But  they're  the  same  thing.  Actually,  doing it  this  way  is  going  to  be  more  accurate. Which  you'll  see  when  you  try  to  do these  linear  interpretations  or when  you  do  interpolation  between  values, you're  going  to  see  that  it's  assuming like  linearity, which  may  not  be  the  case,  right? The  curves  bend  and  all  of  that. Okay.  So  this  would  be exact  if  you  do  it  this  way.  Cool. So  to  check  that,  let's see  if  you  know what  you're  talking  about  here. All  right. So  in  this  problem,  what  I  want  you  to  do, I'll  launch  it,  but  essentially, look  at  this  plot  here,  right? So  I  have  this  diagram  of  a  TV  diagram. I  say  I  have  50  kilograms  of saturated  liquid  water  at  ADC. And  what  are  the  three  answers  to  this? Take  like  5  minutes  for  that, and  then  we'll  go  through  and  see if  we  get  this  hopefully  get  this, or  if  we  need  some  clarification,  okay? Are  there  any  questions before  we  start  the  activity? Let  me  just  launch  it,  and  then  I'll  put the  slides  back  up,  okay?  Any  questions? Okay,  let's  go.  Oops. Lord. Is  it  working? Cool.  Okay.  Great.  Okay.  All  right. We  have  to  Yeah, if  you  look  in  the  homework  you  figure  out, you're  going  to  click what's  called  the  workbook. If  you  click  that  workbook, essentially  what  it  is a  Jupyter  Notebook that  has  everything  installed. It  doesn't  have  access  to  the  Internet, but  it  has  everything else  installed  with  that. So  it's  going  to  be  one  to  one. Okay. So  it's  going  to  be the  same  template  that  you  have  here. If  you  open  that  up,  the  workbook, it's  going  to  be the  same  one  that  you'll  have  in your  quizzes.  It's  not  too  bad. The  graphing  is  a  little  mean. The  graph  is  fine,  yes. The  problem  if  you ever  have  issues  with  graphing, usually  it's  because  you  have issues  with  the  properties  you're  selecting. Yeah.  So,  if  you  have  that  right, you'll  be  able  to  make beautiful  graphs  with  it. But  if  you  don't  have good  states  that  you've  defined, you  essentially  put  yourself  into properties  that  are  difficult because  there's  only  three different  types  of  graphs  you  can  do. Oh,  no,  it's  more  than  three. Like,  it  says  for  the  command. You  could  specify  PTH. Where  did  I  see  three?  Oh,  my gosh.  Now,  we  have  more  to  add. The  other  thing  I  have  to  be direct  with  you  about  on  this  is Pressorrank  Clock wrote  this  for  us  over  the  summer. Press  Frank  Clocks  retired. He  helped  to  basically  take all  this  MATLAB  stuff and  bring  it  into  Python  because  we just  switched  over  in  this  curriculum from  MATLAB  into  Python. Okay?  So  he  generously,  prior  to  retirement, took  all  of  his  knowledge that  he  had  in  Math  lab, converted  this  over  into  Python for  us,  and  we  have  some  stuff. So  if  you  ever  have issues,  what's  really  appreciate it  is  like  if  you  send  me  some  code  and  say, Hey,  Prof,  this  isn't  working. I  can  then  give  that  to  him  and  we can  work  and  debug. Yeah.  Okay.  All  right. Not  that  I'm  lazy  about  it,  but  on  the  exam, it  would  have  just  like  the  homework the  standard  format  of  an  example of  how  to  start  it,  how  to  call  it. So  whatever  you  have  here  is the  workbook  that  you  work with  here  is  going  to  be  identical to  the  one  that  I'm  going  to  give  you. So  if  you  open  this  one,  there  it  go. There  it  is.  Okay.  Open  that. One.  And  you  won't  be  in  this  room. You'll  be  on  a  computer with  real  Internet,  hopefully. What  is  it?  October  2nd  or  third, we  can  take  it. Yeah,  it's  the  second  or third.  Yeah,  I  think  so. But  yeah,  however,  this  is  going to  open  up  and  you'll  see  it essentially  you'll  have  the  same  commands. I  like  going  in  the  book  and  go into  example  of  problems  and  just like  taking  the  data from  here  and  doing  it  on  my own  just  to  see.  So  you  can  do  that. That's  perfectly  fine. But  here's  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you. You're  going  to  get  into systems  in  Module  two, which  might  have  12  states. Okay.  And  you  can't  be wasting  your  mental  energy  on  this  stuff. You  need  to  be  thinking about  what  these  devices  do, pressors,  turbines,  like  all  of  this, the  assumptions  that  are  there  and  just  math. Like  this  property  equals to  this  property,  move  on. And  think  at  that  level  if  you  want  to  start to  get  through  and  move through  these  things  at,  like, one  accurately  and  two  at  pace. So  great. I  Yeah.  But  otherwise, you  can  just  run  in  Data  Hub  two  and  DataHub the  previous  link  in  my  slides  will  open up  a  Data  Hub  notebook. What  are  the  problems.  Say  it  again. What  are  the  best  practice  problems 12  states  12  state  problems.  You  mentioned. I'll  give  them  to  you,  which  you'll  see release  is  module  reviews. So  right  now  is an  additional  assessment,  which  is  not  great. Module  one  review.  If  you click  on  that  product  at  that generates  quizzes  for you  the  same  thing  for  quiz. You'll  have  one  with  any  number  of problems  that  you  can click  and  then  practice. Because  there's  a  homework  you  do  that. And  then  a  lot  of  times  in  the  quizzes, I  try  to  create  quiz,  handle  curve  balls. So  look  at  that  stuff  and  see, but  the  idea  is  really  with all  those  different  variants, once  I  give  you  another  variant  and a  twist,  you're  going  to  handle  that. You  like  divers  plays a  lesson  right  on  out,  okay?  Yeah. You'll  be  good  to  go,  though. But  the  main  thing  is, learn  this  programming  because  one, it's  like  it's  correct. There's  two  states  and  learning  that. And  also  with  the  plot  functions, it's  much  more  rapid  to  do  that  kind of  plotting  in  this  one  than  it is  the  plan  can  go  and  try  to estimate  on  a  PT  diagram, TV  diagram,  where  I'm  at,  and  what  I'm  doing. I  recommend.  Where  specifically  is the  link  on  which  one  is not  if  you  scroll  down. It  could  be  any  of  them. I  think  this  one  probably  also  has  it. So  slow  down  for  me.  Click. Is  that,  no.  You  could  try  that  one, but  also,  just  try  that  one. So  that  one  also  generates  a  plot  to  it, but  you  could  I  don't think  my  Wi  Fi  is  working  at  all. Yeah,  but  if  you  open  it  in  B  courses and  click  on  the  link, I  think  it  doesn't  always  work. Yeah.  Or  if  you  go  to  page  one, there's  also  on  the  first  week, there's  also  the  link  on the  page  one  there  for  it How  are  we  doing  here? Yeah,  it  was  a  lot  of  chart  work. So  we  were  able  to  find 80  degrees  Celsius  for  saturated  water  here. The  specific  saturated  pressure. We  were  also  able  to  find the  saturated  liquid  volume, which  would  be  the  specific  volume. And  to  find  our  volume  of  the  container, we  multiplied  the  mass and  the  specific  volume. Great.  Okay.  So  the  whole  point is,  you  just  did  it  manually. You  use  the  power  tool,  man. Okay.  So  learn  Python. Learn  a  little  bit  of  Python  with  that. Okay.  The  question  on  how  to  grab. Sure.  Like,  I  understand that  if  we're  on  this  line, this  is  just  straight like  this  is  a  straight  vapor. Yeah.  I  was  wondering  if  anything  can  live and  be  great  Of  course. You  go  to  a  higher  pressure and  you  can  have  that. I  go  to  higher  or  lower  pressures, and  you'll  have  a  saturated  liquid vapor  mixture, because  when  I  boil,  it's a  constant  pressure  and  it's a  constant  temperature  right  there. So  that  just  is  at some  higher  pressure  or at  some  lower  pressure. So  it  wouldn't  necessarily  be  like  a.in  this? Yes,  of  course  it  would. At  some  fraction,  only  10%  of  my  volume  is boiled  of  my  liquid. And  if  I  was  here,  I'm  up  here  liquid. Here,  I'm  up  here  vapor,  right? And  as  I  go  through  that,  right, I'm  basically  boiling  at constant  temperature, but  also  constant  pressure. That's  it.  That's  it. Until  your  critical  point.  And  then  you can't  differentiate  100%  favor. There's  nothing  instantaneous  in  life, but  basically  except  maybe  winning  the  lotto, but,  you  know,  the  rest of  it  is  like a  transition  from  one  to  the  other. Okay?  You  can  have  a  point. Any  of  those  points  are  valid, and  you  can  have  that at  equilibrium.  Okay.  Okay. Okay.  So  if  you haven't  submitted  your  answer,  please  submit. Okay.  You  can  present. That's  a  good  pressure. Awesome. 47  47, 47,  47. Okay.  Let's  see  one  more. Okay.  So  it  looks  like a  majority  five  sample  points  on  that, the  same  specific  volume. 0.001,  one,  two,  three,  four. Five  for  that. And  then  what's  my  volume? 0.05,  one,  two,  three, four,  five. Okay.  All  right. 51.  Finally,  dissent.  I  love  descent. Not  in  the  class  though? No,  not  in  the  class. Meter  is  cubed.  Yes,  please. This  is  being,  but  I  saw  47.416, but  on  my  floor  40.12. Say  it  again,  47  what? 47.127.  And  yours  was? Many  of  the  ones  on  screen  are  47.416. Okay,  yeah, basically,  this  is  a  variation  at  1%,  right? All  right.  So  you're  an  engineer. I'm  going  to  tell  you  something. Variations  at 1%  don't  count  in  this  class. Every  answer  if  you're  within  2%  is  correct. And  a  lot  of  times,  You  know, we  have  safety  factors  in  engineering, which  are  like,  much  more  than  2%. I  can  kind  of  tell  you  how much  we  know,  okay? Yeah, but  we  can  go  through  that  really  quickly. So  how  many  of  you  did  this with  the  book  tables,  like  the  paper? How  many  did  it  computationally? Okay,  so  thank  you  to  my  two  there. So  here,  if  we  go  to our  data  hub  and  C.  So  I  do  Pi, Glare  go  like  this. PIP  install  Pi  Killor  from Pi  Killor  import  thermo  STH. What's  my  P  value?  What's  the  pressure? 47.  What's  the  temperature? Is  equal  to  80. What  other  information  are  we  given? Which  is  what? 50.  What  other  information  are  we  given? X  equals  Z?  That's  great. So  basically,  state  then is  my  substance,  which  is  water. My  property  value  one  is,  right? I  can  basically  do  pressure  is  not  a  given. Pressure  is  not  a  given,  right? So  all  you  need  to  do,  right? So  what's  my  pressure? TC  plus  273.15  takes  it  in  Kelvin. X  is  equal  to,  X  and  find, we  can  call  it  water. Let's  go  like  this. Go,  this  and  St  St  dot  P is  47  St  dot  V  is  that, and  then  V  in  meter  cubed  is  equal  to St  dot  V  times  kilogram  V  meter  cubed? How  long  did  that  take  me? Sure. Say  it  again.  Here  1  second  when  we're  done. The  main  takeaway  is  this  is  one  point. You're  going  to  get  into  systems immediately. They're  going  to  have  four  points. We  start  doing  regenerative  Braden, there's  going  to  be  six  points,  right? And  there's  a  multiplier  with  this,  right? So  if  you're  doing  this  by  hand, which  is  perfectly  acceptable  to  do, I  appreciate  craftsmanship  as  much  as the  next  person  with  that  and  quality. Doing  things  at  pace  also  matters, but  also  because  you  will  not consume  mental  energy  with  these  details. You're  going  to  be thinking  about  other  things when  you  get  into  the  system  analysis. So  I  highly  recommend  to  learn  and  work  with these  types  of,  calculations  immediately. Again,  I  don't  know  Python. I  do  not  speak  Python. I  do  not  write  Python. I  can  do  enough  of,  like,  copying and  hack  it  together.  Pig  Latin. I  can  do  like a  Pig  Latin  equivalent  of  Python. So  if  I  can  do  it,  Shirley  Yeah. You  know,  I  believe  in you  and  you're  capable. Yes. So  does  Picor  recognize all  the  different  prefixes  of  units. Like  like  MPA? Yeah,  you  can  do  that.  So  you could  go  into  here,  right? And  I  could  say  that  this  is equal  to  this,  right? C,  you  know,  like  this. Also,  if  you  read  and  you  see,  right, it  goes  into  what  the  base  units are  for  the  different  stuff. So  I'm  most  comfortable working  with  what  I  know, which  is  the  book,  KPA  and  Kelvin. So  I  live  in  Kilpascals  and  I live  in  Kelvin  with  this, and  that's  what  I  go  with. I  have  deep  distrust  for any  extra  things  that  I  do,  okay? Yes,  please.  It's  a  little  bit. But  it's  on  here.  So  if  you  go  here, pp.org  slash  project  slash  picolO, all  the  details  of  that  are  there. It's  also  included  in  every  workbook. When  you  do  the  homework  and  you  go  to Prairie  Learn  and  you  click  on  workbook, it  launches  this  type  of  notebook, and  that  notebook  is  going  to  be available  in  every  assessment  that  you  do, all  your  quizzes, you're  going  to  have  access  to  this. The  same  exact  thing.  So  practice,  okay? Other  questions?  Hey,  I have  2  minutes.  Hold  on.  Hold  on. Other  questions?  Yeah.  So  the  whole  point is  if  you  go  to  Prairie  Learn and  you  see  the  button  workbook, it's  going  to  launch these  Water  Jupiter  Notebooks. So  I'm  encouraging  you to  learn  that  because  it's  going to  be  available  on  all of  those  assessments,  okay? Yes,  please.  It's  online. If  you  Google  PKelor  and  PPP, it's  there,  but  it's  also on  the  B  courses  on  that. I  can  also  email  it.  Should  I  email it?  I  can  email  it. The  documentation  is  on  this  website, but  I  will  email  it. Okay.  Other  questions?  Once,  twice. Okay.  Thank  you  very  much. Have  a  great  rest  of  your  day.
