Um  So  today,  we're continuing  with our  analysis  of  control  volume, so  the  mass  and  energy  analysis  there. We've  already  worked  on compressors  and  turbines. Today,  we're  going  to  touch  on throttling  valves  and  heat  exchangers  there. We're  also  going  to  discuss some  unsteady  flow  processes. Thanks  to  the  students  who  caught the  issues  with  Priory  learn. It  was  behaving  about  the  same  way as  Cal's  offense  and  the  red  zone, so  not  great  this  weekend. Although  Women  Soccer  did  very well  note  that. So  we're  talking  here  about  this  example of  a  throttling  element. You  can  ask  yourself,  What  is  that? So  what  it  is  is  it's an  element  that  is  within all  vapor  compression  refrigeration  systems, it's a  vapor  compression  refrigeration  system. It  is  your  refrigerator. So  it  consists  of  a  compressor. You  do  work  in.  A  condenser. This  is  where,  like, the  hot  side  on  a  fridge, the  expansion  valve  or  throttling  element, and  then  the  evaporator. So  basically  the  portion  of your  fridge  that's  cold. If  you  run  this  in  reverse, you  have  what's  called  a  heat  pump. So  that's  actually  what we're  going  to  use  for decarbonizing  or electrifying  our  heating  systems. More  and  more  into those  two  systems  later  on. So  what  does  this  expansion or  throttling  valve  look  like? So  it  can  be  an  adjustable  valve, which  is  kind  of  how  I've  drawn  it  here. If  you  ever  draw  a  process in  instrumentation  diagram  P  and  ID. So  you  look  something  like  that. It  can  also  just  be  a  porous  plug. So  imagine,  like,  I  don't  know,  you  know, some  kind  of  cotton  or  some  kind  of  a  wool that's  in  there  or  this  capillary  tube. The  main  thing  is  that  there  should  be a  very  large  pressure  drop  across  it. So  this  is  something  where  it's very  resistive  you  know, very  resistive  to  flow. Why  would  one  want  to  do  that? You  would  want  to  do  that,  if  for  example, you  wanted  to  get  a  fluid  ready to  vaporize.  All  right? So  use  these  elements  to  take  a  fluid,  right? Let's  say  in  a  liquid  state  here, have  a  massive  pressure  drop across  it  and  get this  thing  ready  to  evaporate  or  boil, which  in  this  case,  is  used  to  cool. Okay?  There's  other  ways  to  do  it, but  this  is  a  pretty  simple  element that  work. So,  I  want  to  walk  you  through,  this. So  I've  represented  this  expansion  or throttling  valve  here  on  this  diagram. So  we  have  a  fluid  which  is entering  into  the  valve here  and  exiting  here. I'm  drawing  my  control volume  around  the  valve  there. So  I  have  an  m.in.  This  is operating  under  steady  conditions. We  assume  this  is  operating under  steady  conditions. So  D,  our  D  dts  are  equal  to  zero. So  that  means  the  mass  M  dot, n  is  basically  equal  to  the  that  out, so  that  is  equal  to  M  that  out, which  is  equal  to  that. Um  And  it's  the  same. We  can  then  also  apply  this for  our  energy  equation. So  the  change,  let  me  be  more  precise. I'll  be  a  bit  more  precise and  detailed  with  this. So  how  do  we  get  to  that? So  the  change,  right? The  d  of  the  mass within  the  system  there as  a  function  at  time, is  equal  to  the  mass  that enters  minus  M  dot  that  exits. And  so  it  steady  state  this  term on  the  left  hand  side  is  zero. So  what  you  have  is  dot  n  is  equal  to  M  dot, which  I  just  want  to  call  dot. Alright.  Do  the  same  thing. So  that's  the  principle  that's our  conservation  of  mass. So  our  energy  equation,  right? So  change  in  energy  within  the  system, right  within  the  control  volume  as  a  function at  time  is  equal  to  the  energy  that  enters, right,  e  dot  minus  the  energy  that  exits. And  by  virtue  of  this  facter of  it  being  at  steady  state, right  our  e  dot  is  equal  to  E  dot  out,  right? So  e.in.  All  right.  So  e.in. So  I'm  going  to  write  all  the  terms  here. So  we  have  you  know, we  can  transfer  energy through  Let  me  just  check  my  volume. It's  fine.  So  we  can  transfer  work  in, right?  So  we  can  work  in. We  can  have  heat  that  we  transfer  in, and  then  we  also  have  the  mass  stream. So  we  have  M  dot,  and I'm  only  going  to  write  Mm  dot, since  I've  noted  that  dot  n  is  equal to  m  dot  which  is  equal  to  M  dot. And  so  this  is  multiplied  then  by the  enthalp  at  state  one,  right? So  that's  on  the  left  hand  side  of the  valve  plus  the  velocity  of  the  fluid, which  I'm  going  to  note  is the  variable,  at  that  point, squared  divided  by  two,  kinetic  energy, let's  say,  times  g z  one,  which  is  the  height. That's  the  height  basically  at  at  this. So  that's  all  those  terms.  The  e  dot, It's  the  same  thing,  but just  with  out  subscripts, W  plus  Q  plus  m  two, so  the  property  at  the  exit  of the  control  volume  there at  the  end  of  the  valve  plus velocity  squared  divided  by two  kinetic  energy  plus  g  z  two, So  z  being  the  height  there. We  can  get  rid  of  a  lot  of  terms. So  the  first  thing,  is we're  not  doing  any  work  here. Right? We're  not  transferring  any  work  in  and  out  of the  of  the  system. Sac  gone.  These  are  small. These  are  small,  generally small  devices  here, which  means  that  they  don't  have a  lot  of  surface  area. And  what's  generally  assumed for  them  is  that  you  don't really  have  they'll  be insulated  a  lot  of  times  as  well. And  so  you  assume  that  you  also  don't  have any  heat  transfer  in or  any  heat  transfer  out. You  neglect  kinetic  energy, gone,  and  you  also  neglect changes  in  potential  energy, which  sort  of  makes  sense. Small  valve,  not  very  big  changes  in  height. And  the  velocities  that  we have  of  the  gas  or  the  fluid,  I'm  sorry, the  fluid  entering  and  exiting  are  not  really comparable  to  the  changes in  enthalpy  that  will  be  happening. So  we  come  back  to  this  equation. Here  saying  that  e  dot  is  equal  to  e  dot  out. We  can  combine  those. So  what  we'll  have  a  is  for  e  dot  N, we  have.h1  is  equal  to  m.h2. Dots  are  gone.  And  so  we  have, after  all  of  that  writing, H  one  is  equal  to  two. So  what  if  you  had  to  make  up  a  word  to describe  that  process, what  would  you  call  that? No,  let's  stay  with  that.  So  what  is Adiobatic  from  the  audience? So  that's  correct,  right?  So  we  don't have  heat  being  transferred and  being  transferred  out. So  Adiobatic  could  be  a  descriptor. I'm  asking  now,  based  on,  you  know, all  the  rest  of the  assumptions  that  I  have  here, what's  another  word  I  would  use? Let's  hold  on  to  that  one. Another  thought  from  the  audience? So,  we  haven't  introduced  entropy  yet. But  I  think  you're  on  a  good  track. What  is  H? So  if  I  told  you,  you  know, to  ask  Chat  PT  to  say,  k, give  me  a  word  like  nropic, but  for  Oh,  for  enthalpy. What  would  you  call  it?  There  we  go. I'm  Chat  EPT  today. Alright?  So,  H  one is  equal  to  H  two.  So  it's  Iyopic. I  think  this  is  the  only  time  in the  course  where  you're  going  to,  you  know, be  shown  a  device  where the  process  is  an  isopic  process,  right? Okay,  so  good. We  have  that  part  of  it. I  can  plot  for  you  what that  looks  like,  and  we'll  go  through, and  I'll  give  you  the  details of  what's  going  on. All  the  details  of  this, if  you  launch,  from  your  slides  here, you  should  get  a  um You  should  get a  Jupiter  notebook  that  launches  with the  script  and  all  of  the  details. But  to  plot  an  isentropic  process, it's  convenient  to  plot what  we  call  a  pressure  enthalpy  diagram. This  is  very  common  in refrigeration  to  see  what's called  this  pH  PH  diagram. Just  like  the  PV  PT TV  diagrams  we  saw  before, you  have  the  dome,  right? So  the  region  that's  within  here  is  the mixed,  liquid  vapor  region. And  what  we're  doing,  as  I  said, is  you  start  off  at  a  state that's  at  high  pressure, and  you  have this  big  pressure  drop  across  it. So  this  straight  line  here then  is  representative  of an  isentropic  of an  isentropic  process,  right? Can  give  you  some  Yeah. And  in  this  problem  here,  I've  worked  out. If  you  launched  it  and  looked  at  it, you'd  see  some  details. But,  you  know,  one  of  the,  you  know, important  things  that  you  see  here  is you  go  from  being  something  that's like,  you  know, the  saturated  liquid  in this  case  to  being  somewhere that's  in  the  mixture  region,  right? Getting  ready  to  let  this  thing  really boil  really  boil,  right? But  let  me  just  open  up  that  just  to show  you.  All  right. So  again,  you  can  run  through, but  I  just  want  to  show  you now  what's  the  consequence, the  consequence  of  that  drop  when  it comes  to  something  like  a refrigeration  system. So  here  in  this  problem,  you're working  with  a  refrigerant. This  refrigerant  is  called  R  134  A. Okay?  We  are  not  chemists, engineers, mechanical  engineers  are  not  chemists. They  never  give  the  chemical  name. So  they  always  talk  about  it  like  rs. So  there's  a  whole  bunch  of  them. R  22  was  an  old  one. But  R  134  is  a  very  commonly  used  one  there. And  again,  you  have  the  different  states. Again,  I'm  talking  about  this  in the  context  of  a  refrigeration  system. For  the  purposes  here,  all  we  really  care about  in  that  system  is state  three  to  state  four, which  is  the  throttling  process,  right? And  so  I  give  some  pressure. So  like  1.4  about  seven bar  at  the  entrance  of  the  throttling  valve, and  about  1  bar  at the  exit  of  the  so  basically about  seven  times  atmospheric  pressure, and  approximately,  let's  say 1  atmosphere  of  pressure  from  upstream. You  know,  over  the  throttling  valve to  downstream.  You  can  go  through. What's  interesting  to  note  is  when you  go  from  T  three  to  T  four, that  process  where  you  say,  Okay,  I  mean, I  have  the  same  age  values, what  could  really  be  changing? Here  you  get  a  43  degrees  centigrade  change, right? So  you  get  a  tremendous  tremendous  cooling which  is  happening  during  the  process. As  I  already  noted  before, there's  a  very  big  pressure  drop  with  it. And  In  order  to  understand  that, we  can  remember  the  definition of  entop,  right? So  we  have  internal  energy, right  plus  P  PV,  right? And  so  what  I'm  saying  is  that  in  one  case, it's  a  constant  value. In  one  case,  you  have  a  very,  you  know, massive  change  you  massive changes  in  pressure, also  in  specific  volume, as  I  showed  you  on  the  diagram. And  the  consequence  of that  is  that  you're  getting big  changes  as  well in  internal  energy,  right? So  effectively,  you're  making it  pre  pretty  cold,  right? Cool.  Any  questions  about  that  example? Yes,  please.  Specific  volume. Yeah.  So  this  is  specific. Sorry.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Sorry,  Mx. In  the  back?  Sam,  right? It's  like  if  you  took  it's not  exactly  a  faucet, but  I  want  to  build  on  your  faucet  analogy. Imagine  in  your  faucet, you  just  cranked  it to  be  just  a  little  bit  open,  right? A  little  bit  open  so  you  have  sort  of  a  drip. In  the  context  of  the  faucet, what's  happening  is  that you're  getting,  you  know, very,  very  little,  you  know, mass  flow  rate  because  you have  a  very  tiny  opening. Now,  So  that's  the  kind  of  small  opening. In  the  context  of  this,  the  major  differences that  you're  sending  the  pressure, unlike  in  your  faucet,  which is  relatively  low  pressure, here  you  have  a  much  higher pressure  upstream. So  instead  of  like  maybe  a one  or  half  a  bar  drop in  pressure  across, you  know,  the  faucet,  here  you're having  something  like  five, ten  times  atmospheric  pressure  across  that, which  has  consequences  on  the  phase  change, and  as  a  result  of  that, you're  getting  big  big  cooling  effects within  that  process, even  though  you  have  no  heat exchange  from  inside  to  outside. Kind  of  kind  of. And  that  is  indeed  one  of  them. The  capillary  tube  that they  showed  before  is  kind  of like  a  pinched  a  pinched  pipe  of  sorts. Yes.  Max  to  the  front  here. Yeah.  But  you  also  have  a  change  in  V.  Yeah. Other  questions?  Yes,  please. Yeah,  so,  you  know, H  is  then  u  plus  P  V,  right? Because  this  would  be  nothing  but M  times  is  s  or M  times  u  p  in  the  case of  V  has  units of  meters  cubed  per  kilogram. So  if  I  took  m  and  times  v, this  would  be  equal  to  V. Am  I  missing  something? Meter  cube  per  kilogram? So  then  this  would  would  give  you  that. So  then  here,  this  is  still  PV, But  if  I  divide  by  the  m  on  both  sides, right  then  I'm  going  to  have  h  is  equal  to u  plus  P  v  divided  by, and  V  is  equal  to  v  divided  by  m.  So  this becomes  little  V.  T  Other  questions. Great.  So  what  I  want  to  say  is,  like,  again, I  keep  starting  with  the  same  procedure. No.  I  have  my  thing. I  draw  my  control  volumes. I'm  looking  at  an  inlet. I'm  looking  at  my  outlets. I'm  looking  at  my  mass  flows  there. I'm  looking  at  the energy  transferred  in  and  out. I'm  writing  it,  you  know, fully  out  in  both  cases. I'm  stating  my  assumptions on  what  I'm,  you  know,  removing, getting  down  to  my  equation, calculating  my  properties,  and  then, you  know,  solving  for  something. So  hopefully  that  kind  of  pattern  is becoming  familiar  to  you. So,  let's  do  it  again. Look  at  another  example  here. So,  in  this  case,  this  is  a  little bit  more  sophisticated. This  is  a  heat  exchanger. Um Alright. And  so  the  main  difference  between  this  and the  other  ones  that  we've  looked  at  so  far  is we  don't  just  have  one  inlet  and  one  outlet. We  have  another  inlet  and  another  outlet. That's  the  first  difference. Um  but  we  don't  have  any  mixing,  right? There's  no  mixing  of the  mass  between  it,  right? So  this  is,  like, you  know,  some  water's  coming  in. It's  filling  this  whole  volume, and  then  it's  going  out. And  then  inside  of  it,  you  have this  tube  with  a  refrigerant. In  this  case,  you  know,  the  R  134  A  again that's  entering  and  leaving. An  important  part  about this  is  that  we're  going  to  have to  draw two  different  control  volumes  for  that. We're  going  to  analyze  1-2. And  then  we're  going  to  analyze  3-4. There's  going  to  be  a  matching  condition that  happens  between  them,  right? And  since  this  is  a  heat  exchanger, you  might  deduce  that the  matching  condition  is. Heat.  Heat.  Great.  Let's  do  it. All  right.  Yeah.  And  here, the  other  thing  to  note  is  that  the  water is  entering  colder  and  leaving  hotter. So  this  is  chilling,  right? So  the  water  is  basically chilling  the  refrigerant? We  can  also  see  that because  the  refrigerants  entering hot  and  leaving  cold. Another  thing  for  these devices  is  we  usually, in  addition  to  assuming  steady  state, state  operation  for  this is  that  we  also  assume  that  there's no  major  pressure  drops across  the  device.  So  what  does  that  mean? It  means  like,  so  we  say  no  pressure  drop. Like  within  the  device, that  means,  for  the  purposes of  this,  basically,  like, P  one  is  approximately  equal  to  P two  and  P  three  is approximately  equal  to  P  four. And  we  can  talk  about  whether  or  not  we think  that  that's  valid, but  that's  a  different  conversation for  a  different  day. We're  also  given  a  mass  flow  rate here  and  a  few  details  about the  state  of  the  refrigerant  itself. We're  told  that  the  refrigerants entering  as  a  vapor, and  then  it's  exiting  as  a as  a  subcooled  liquid  there. Alright?  Cool. So  let's  solve  this  thing,  right? So  we  can  start  first  with  withdrawing our  control  volume  for  the  water. This  is  going  to  be  a  little  bit  weird. But  let's  say,  I'll  do  my  best. Um  All  right.  So  this  is  state  one. This  is  State  two.  This  is  in,  this  is  out. We've  got  like  also  the  refrigerant  pipe, which  is  within  within  here, doing  doing  something  like  that,  right? And  for  this  control  volume, I'm  only  looking  at  at  the  water. I'm  not  looking  at  the  at  the  refrigerant. So  I  would  look  something like  All  right. I'm  only  getting  a  slice  of  it, right,  but  some  hopefully, you  understand  my  meaning that  For  the  first  part, this  is  the  CV  for the  control  volume  for  the  water,  right? So  we  have  our  steady  state, which  is  then  DDT, zero,  which  implies  that the  dot  n  is  equal  to  m  dot, which  is  equal  to  M  dot. We  can  apply  this  for  water. All  right. And  then  the  same  thing  for  the  refrigerant. So  we  can  say  that  the  m  dot  n is  equal  to  the  M  dot  is equal  to  the  dot  for  the  r  134  A.  All  right. So  I'm  using  the  subscript  here  to mean  this  is  m.in  water, m  dot  water  dot  water, m.r1  hundred  34  A, dot  R  134  A  is  m.r14  A  there. The  change,  the  d  E  dt of  our  control  volume  for  the  for  our  water. We'll  also  say  is  equal to  is  equal  to  zero,  okay? So  right  which  is e  n  minus  e.  And  this  is  all  for  water. Okay,  so  et  in  for  the  water  case, et  water  is  equal  to  Q  dot  n, and  I'll  put  the  water  on  the outside  of  this  q.in plus  w  n  plus  m  dot, and  then  this  is  times  what's  coming  in, which  is  the  11pw  one squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  one  water. We  have  e  water  is  then  equal to  q  plus  w  plus  m  two, two  plus  W  two  squared where  that's  velocity  plus  g  z  two, changes  in  height,  and  that's  also  water. Alright,  so  what  can  we  get  rid  of? There's  no  work  being  done  here? There's  no  work  devices, no  paddles,  or  anything  like  that. So  that  goes. We  don't  expect  significant  changes in  kinetic  or  potential  energy  through  this. So  those  are  those  are  gone. And  now  it's  important  that  we think  about  the  problem,  right?  So  think. I  said,  before,  the  water is  entering  cold  and leaving  hot  and  the  refrigerants entering  hot  and  leaving  cold. So  what  term  do you  get  rid  of,  if  I  say  that? Does  this  side  of  a  room  have  an  opinion? May  sad  it  out  of  the  way. Is  the  water  being  heated  or  cooled? Yes,  please. Sorry. Why?  Yeah. But  if  you  have  that,  then  we  have  to  be consistent  when  we  apply this  thinking  to  the  refrigerant. You  can  also  do  the  reverse, but  you  got  to  think  in  reverse, like  opposite  day,  right? So  do  today  or  do  opposite  today. But  here,  we're  going  to  get  rid of  Q  out  there. And  so  if  we  put  this  all  together,  so  again, that  E  N  is  equal  to  E out  from  this  equation. What  we'll  have  is  aq.in  for the  water  is  equal  to  m.h2  minus  one. All  right.  All  right. That's  good  for  us.  Yes,  please. Yeah,  I'm  definitely  going  to  do  that. Nice  question. So  right  now,  we haven't  calculated  any  properties. So  we  haven't  calculated  any  enthalpies  yet, but  we  will  get  there. Okay.  Please. So  a  short  answer  is, let  me  ask  it  another  way. If  I  take  a  fluid  and at  state  one,  it  enters  a  system, and  then  at  state  two, between  State  one  and  state  two, I've  transferred  heat  to  it, would  you  expect  that  would you  expect  the  same  energy  content? No.  Id,  right? Okay.  Is  why  did  cross  that the  machines  Super  important. Super  important.  So  I've  taken  this  system, and  I  have  drawn  this horribly  drawn  control  volume  around  water, right? And  what  I'm  saying,  I hope  this  is  not  a  fire  alarm  again. So  we  have  this  control  volume, and  I'm  analyzing  the  things that  come  in  and  things  that  come  out,  right? And  what  I'm  saying  is that  there  will  be  heat transferred  in  from  the  refrigerant. Into  the  water. Alright?  And  I'm  claiming this  because  the  water at  the  exit  is  hotter  than the  water  when  it  enters. So  I  believe  there's  being  heat exchanged  from  the  refrigerant. Right?  That  pipe  This  is  like the  refrigerant  pipe  here, and  heat's  being  transferred  from that  refrigerant  pipe  into  this, like,  big  volume,  this  big  box  of  water. So  I  say  that  big  box  minus, all  the  refrigerant  pipe is  my  control  volume. And  I'm  claiming  that there's  heat  coming  from the  refrigerant  piping  into  the  water,  right? What  I'm  also  claiming  from  this, and  maybe  that's  not  I  wasn't made  obvious  with my  assumption  is  that  around, let's  say  around  this  entire  box  here. You  know,  I  don't  have  a  que out  for  the  for  the  water. Let's  say  it's  kind  of  insulated. There  maybe  the  problem  didn't give  enough  information  for  it. But  if  I  did  that,  then  I  would  say  there  is no  queue  out  of, you  know,  from  the  water  to  something,  okay? I  water  warmer.  The  water  is  getting  warmer. No,  1-2.  Talking  about  one.  Yeah. But  the  other  way  around, you  think  the  other  way. Okay.  These  are  great  questions, but  I  want  to  get  through this  because  there's  other  parts, and  then  I  want  to  have  you all  take  a  shot  at  it. So  we  have  the  Q  in  part. We  sell  the  energy  equation,  essentially, conservation  of  energy  for  the  water  system. I  would  now  like  to  look  at the  refrigeration  system or  y,  the  refrigerant. So  there  and  I got  the  water  that's  in  the  water  out. That's  one.  That's  two. And  then  I  got  my  refrigerant  piping, which  is  coming  in. Okay. And  that's  state  three,  and that's  state  four. And  maybe  this  control volume's  a  bit  easier  to  see. So  I  would  do  something  like  this. All  right. So  here's  my  control  volume  then  of  R 134  of  R  134  A. We  already  have  the  case  of  the  steady  state and  the  mass  and  the  mass  out  of the  refrigerant  being  the  same. We  can  solve  the  equation for  the  energy  equation,  right? It's  going  to  be  like  the  e  in the  d  E  dt  of  this  system  for  r 134  a  is  equal  to  e  n minus  e  out  for  the  r  134  a. I  can  write  everything  out. Then  the  e,  the  e  n  f  r  134 A  is  equal  to  r  q  dot  n  plus  w  n  plus  m  dot. I'm  just  writing  m  dot  for  the reasons  I  just  said  there, three  plus  W  three squared  kinetic  energy  pl  gz  three, potential  energy,  r1f  a, r  of  r1f  A. Is  equal  to  k  dot  plus  w  plus  m  dot  again, because  they're  the  same  four plus  W  four  squared  divided by  two  plus  g  z  four,  r  134  a. Okay.  We  don't  have  work  transfer  out. We  do  have  heat  transfer. We  have  heat  transfer  that's  going  from the  refrigerant  to  the  water. So  if  I  come  back  to the  gentleman  before  who  gave  me  the  other  Q, what  Q  dot  would  we  call  this  then? Q.  Which  means  we  don't  have  Q. Negle  kinetic  energy  and  potential  energy. And  forgive  me,  I'm  going  to  write  this  one. I'm  going  to  be  able  to  write  it here  in  this  case. But  if  we  rearrange our  Q  dot  out  is  equal  then  to Q  H  three  minus  four. All  right. And  these  have  to  match,  right? So  I  have  a  Q  dot  out  here. I  have  aq.in  here. And  so  these  two, my  Q  dot  out  must  be  equal  to  my  Q  dot. Alright. And  so  then  what  we'll  have  is  we'll have  a,  again,  just  to  be  clear, this  is  an  M  R  one  A. And  then  this  applies  for  water.  All  right. Um  So  then  the  m.r1  34  a, h  three  minus  h  four  is  equal  to the  m  dot  water  times H  two  minus  H  one. And  so  one  of the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  cooling  water. So  then  the  M  dot  water, since  this  one  is  given, is  equal  then  to  m.r1  34  A  times  the  ratio  of three  minus  four  divided  by  H  two  minus  one. There's  the  first  formula that  we  need.  Yes.  Yes,  please. I  mean,  I'm  drawing  I'm drawing  it  at  the  interface between  the  fluid, the  refrigerant  fluid, and  the  pipe,  I  would  say. Yeah. Intuition.  The  short  answer  is  intuition. And  so  I  would  say  what  you will  see  is  you  can  go  in  and  we did  this  last  time where  I  gave  you  all  the  terms of  the  enthalpy  kinetic and  potential  energies. And  if  you  actually  go  and  you calculate  these  things  like  individually, you  will  see  that  in  a  lot  of  these  cases, especially  where  we  have  major heat  transfer  that  they're just  not  really  players. So  you'll  see  like  a  heat exchanger  probably  not  a  player, you  know,  potential  kinetic  in  that. You  see  a  nozzle.  Your  reaction should  be  almost  the  opposite  there,  right? I  might  have  a  situation  that's kind  of  maybe  no  heat  transfer, but  huge  changes  in  entropy and  huge  changes  in  kinetic  energy  there. All  right,  I  see  a  huge  water storage  tank  or  I'm  pumping, you  know,  water  in,  like,  pumped hydro  for  storage. There,  you  might  expect  big  changes  in potential  energy  when  you  store. So,  but  for  now,  I'm  like, helping  you  to  get  on the  weight  to  the  intuition. And  so  with  these  kind  of, like,  canonical  representative  problems, it'll  become  more  automatic.  Other  questions. Sam?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Three. I'm  gonna  say  H  three  minus  H  four, but  now  you're  gonna  make  me  check  my  notes. I  was  doing  it,  H  three. I  have  H  three  minus  H  four, H  two  minus  H  one. Right?  So  I  guess  if we  think  about  it  in  terms  of  this, H  three  has  a  higher  temperature. So  likely  higher  enthalpy, H  four  is  cooler. H  two  has  a  higher  temperature  than  H  one, so  probably  higher  enthalpy  than  here. So both  those  subtractions  are  positive  terms. Yeah,  I  think  that that's  the  right  orientation. But  if  you  got  negatives, then  we  think  about the  direction  of  our  cues. Did  we  get  one  in  the  wrong  direction  or  not because  you're  not  gonna  have  a  negative mass  flow  rate,  okay? Okay,  but  now  we  got  to calculate  some  properties,  right? So  again,  in  the  interest  of  time  here,  no. Hold  on  hold  on,  hold  on. Sorry,  sory  sorry.  Hold  on,  hold  on. No.  So  that's  for  the  mass  flow  rate. Now  we  can  come  back  to  the  heat  transfer. So  to  do  the  heat  transfer  rate. So  we  said,  do  the  heat  transfer  rate  from the  refrigerant  to  to  the  water. So  in  that  case  here,  we  could  say,  k, refrigerant  to  water,  that's  going  to be  Q  dot  Q  dot  out. So  I'm  looking  for  my  Q  dot  out. Q  out  is  equal  to  the  mass  flow  rate  of  R 134  A  times  H  three  minus  H  four. Right?  Does  anyone  think there's  a  different  way  they  could  do  that? Sure.  Yes.  Correct.  Yeah. So  you  could  also  do  it  the  other  way, you  could  say  it  as eloquently  as  he  said  it  there. Okay.  So,  we  need  to  know  now, in  this  case,  we  know  the  m  R  134  A. So  we  need  to  know  H  three  and  H  four. And  in  this  case  here, we  need  to  know  H  3h4h2  and  H  one. We  can  look  up  at  the  problem here  before  we  get  into the  nitty  gritty  of  calculating  properties. So  we  start  with  water. So  water  15  degrees  and  300  Uh,  kilopascals. You  go  to  your  tables. You  can  go  to  the  electronic  tables. You  could  think  intuitively,  as  well, do  I  expect  that  to  be, you  know,  a  liquid  or  a  vapor  there? I  believe  that's  three  bar  at  15  centigrade. It's  water.  It's  like  liquid  water, a  little  bit  higher  pressure,  but that's  a  pretty  low  temperature. So  I  expect  that  to  be,  you  know, liquid  water,  and  then  at  State  two. I  told  you  before,  you're  not  going  to have  pressure  drops  across  the  device. So,  you  know,  the  pressure  is  again  the  same, and  the  temperature  is just  about  ten  degrees  warmer, but  still  probably  a  liquid. W  State  three,  we're  given  R  134  A  at 70  degrees  Celsius  and  one  Mega  Pasco. So  that  may  or  may  not  be  enough  information. As  I  read  the  problem,  though, it's  telling  me  that  I'm  entering  as  a  vapor. Alright.  At  this  condition. So  probably  then  I'm all  vapor,  and  I'm  good  to  go. And  at  state  four,  I'm only  given  a  temperature, and  it's  told  that  I'm  leaving as  a  subcooled  liquid  there. So  let's  have  a  look  at  our  at  the  tables. All  right.  So  again,  this  is  refrigerant. So  as  I  mentioned  before, that  for  the  typical  module  we've been  using  is  IPWS.  That's  for  water. If  you  want  to  use a  refrigerant  or  a  different  fluid, you're  probably  going  to  have  to have  a  different  module. In  this  case,  we're  working  with a  version  of these  electronic  tables  from  NIST. So  how  many  you  know  what  Nist  is? Google  Wit  NIST  is,  right. So  we  have  this,  and  we  can  import  it. The  syntax  is  slightly  is  slightly  different. So  I  got  my  temperatures, I  got  my  pressures,  all  input. Here  you  can  declare  your  fluid. This  can  do  R  134  A, but  it  can  also  do  air  and a  couple  of  other  fluids  two. We  have  the  input  of  the  mass  flow  rate. This  includes  all  of  what  I did  here,  blah,  blah,  blah, of  your  you  know,  formulas. We'll  calculate  the  water  properties here  as  we've  done  before. So  we  have  that  change  from  the  inlet, which  is  63  kilo  joules  a  kilogram  to 105  kilojoules  per  kilogram  in  the  water. So  O  H  one  is 63  kilojules  per  kilograms. I  don't  like  that  green. Our  H  two  is  equal  to  105  kilos per  kilogram,  and  Exactly. H  three  here  is  452, H  three  is  452  kilojoules  per  kilogram, and  our  H  four  is  200  say, 249  kilojoules  per  per  kilogram,  right? And  that's  good  h3h4. And  so  yeah,  the  water  mass  fly's  then about  half  a  kilogram  per  second. And  then  with  the  heat  transfer here  is  the  H  three minus  H  four  times the  mass  fa  to  the  refrigerant, which  is  then  Q  dot  out. All  right.  Is  that  equal  to looks  like  20  20  kilowatts? Alright?  Does  that  make  sense? 200  times. Yeah.  I  think  so.  Yeah,  I  think  so. Okay.  Cool.  So  I'm not  gonna  go  through  the  code  here. I'm  saying,  go,  read,  check  on  how it's  how  it's  all  done. This  approach,  again,  with these  modules  on  Cool  Prop  and  IPS. It  may  sound  a  little  bit complicated.  You  know,  at  the  moment. The  syntax  might  look  a  little  bit  weird, but  I'm  telling  you  when we  start  to  analyze  these, like,  not  just,  you  know, This  is  kind  of  a  complicated  problem, but  we're  going  to  get  to, like,  some  bigger  problems, and  being  able  to  do  this  is  going  to make  life  simpler  there. Okay. Great.  Alright,  I'm  getting  out  of  this. So  I  do  have  enough  time?  I  think I  have  enough  time.  All  right? Um  Cool.  So  we  also  have. So,  as  I  said,  so  one  of the  questions  that  came up  was  one  to  neglect, potential  energy,  kinetic  energy, and  all  of  that. The  other  major  assumption  that  we've applied  to  most  of these  systems  is  that  they're. They're  steady,  right? The  problem  of  our  time, as  a  lot  of  the  energy  we receive  is  unsteady. Sun  is  not  up  24  hours  a  day. You  need  storage,  right? There's  a  lot  of  stuff  that  comes from  unsteady  processes, and  you  need  to  sort  of  store  with  it. One  example  here  is  sort of  like  a  charging  tank  or the  pup  hydro  that  I mentioned,  you  know,  before. So  it  can  either  be  stored  here. You  could  also  have  something  like  a  spring, a  pressurized  system  like  that, you  know,  with  it,  we  could  break  that  down. So  you  can  imagine  here  that  you have  mass  that's  entering. Alright?  So  you  have  some  initial  mass. You  have  some  final  mass within  the  control  volume that  I've  drawn,  right. And  this  mass  that's  entering  could  be carrying  some  energy  with  it. The  way  we  talk  about  that  energy  is  with, you  know,  enthalpy,  kinetic energy,  potential  energy. Uh,  you  know,  changes at  the  inlet  of  the  exit. In  the  case  here  where  we  don't have  a  flowing  fluid. So  here  I'm  just,  you  know,  I'm  moving some  mass  in,  right? We're  not  going  to  then  have any  sort  of  flow  work. So  this  is  coming  from  the  textbook. It  talks  about,  you  know, we  had  that  whole  thing  about  the internal  energy  plus  the  flow  work, you  know,  when  we  do  it  when  we  do  it  there. So  anyway,  these  are  sort  of  the  two  streams. And  what  I'd  like  to  do,  I think  we  have  just  enough  time, and  then  I'll  get  the  answers and  we  can  discuss  this  next  time is  talk  with  your  group. Look  at  this  problem. Look  at  this  problem  here. So  you  have  an  adiabatic control  volume  with  one  exit, no  inlet, and  electrical  and  electrical  heating. There's  no  change  in  velocity  or  elevation. Changes.  It's  fall  2020. There's  45c.  Okay. And  all  I  want  to  know  is simplify  this  formula,  right? So  we  have  5  minutes. So  take  the  5  minutes  there, talk  with  your  group  and  start  to see  what  variables  you  need  to keep  or  get  rid  of. And  then  with  this  answer,  we  can present  with  next  time. Okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  the  activity?
