This  is  now  we're moving  into  content  that's  then assessed  on  the  final  exam,  right? So,  yeah,  today,  we're  going  to remind  you  again  of the  refrigerators  and  the  heat  pumps, and  we're  going  to  go  into actually  analyzing  these  things, so  using  entropy  and  stuff  to  analyze the  so  called  ideal  vapor  compression  cycle. So  you're  going  to  ask  yourself,  who  cares? So,  this  was  the  pre  reading  for  today, which  I'm  sure  you  all  did. So  this  is  right  time, and  what  you're  looking  at  here  is  the  number of  units  that  are  sold. And  two  years  ago was  the  first  time  then  that heat  pumps  outsold  gas  furnaces. So  my  question  to  you  is  why? Efficiency.  What  about  efficiency? This  is  one.  Say  it  again. Cheaper  in  the  back,  Howard? There's  no  candy.  I  forgot  it. I'll  bring  it  though.  I'll  bring  it. I'll  put  it  on  your  tab. So  a  distribution  thing? Sam? California  Yeah. So  maybe  some  regulations. What  if  I  thermodynamically because  we're  in  a  thermodynamics  course. You  can  you  put  in. Gas  gas? Yes.  Yes.  Your  house, whereas  a  heat  pump less  energy  and  get  more  Bingo. So  all  those  other  things  are  sort  of  valid, but  in  thermo,  this  is  it,  right? So  for  every  one  unit  of energy  you  put  into  a  gas  furnace, basically,  it  becomes  heat,  right? If  you  have  chemical  energy, you  burn  you  have  heat. But  if  you  take  that  equivalent, right  to  start  with,  and you  put  it  into  a  heat  pump, you  can  move  two  or  three  units  of  energy, thermal  energy,  it's  heat. And  that's  it.  Basal  economics,  right? And  that's  the  beauty  of  the  heat  pump. Were  there  other  comments?  I  saw one  or  two  more  hands  raised. Sure.  So  district  heating,  yes. No,  it's  not.  So  district  heating. So  in  Zurich  where  I  used to  live,  they  had  fan  Vom, which  is  basically  they  took  garbage, and  they  burned  it,  right? And  they  made  heat,  and  they  heated the  city  with  burned  garbage. You  can  ask  yourself  if  it's  good. But  I  mean,  that  is,  like,  you  are  sort  of, you  know,  distributing  the  heat, but  it's  not  like  a  heat  pump like  with  a  device  like  this. Yeah.  Module  three  is  the  final  exam. Module  two  is  midterm  two. Module  one,  mid  term  one. Module  two,  mid  term  two. Module  three,  final  exam. No,  gas  power  cycles. Gas  power  cycles  is  in  Module  two. And  refrigeration  is  in  which  part? There  we  go.  Okay.  And  the  vapor. And  where  is  that  at?  And  that  means  it's  on. There  we  go.  Other  questions? Okay,  I  do  make  mistakes. So  thank  you  for  clarifying. Okay,  that's  it.  So  the  whole  point. That's  the  whole  reason  on the  heat  pump  is  that  it's  many. Basically,  it's  cheaper, and  then  it  just  so  happens  to be  that  something  that  was  a very  difficult  to  decarbonize  sector. So  like  hot  water  at home,  like  all  of  this  stuff. It's  really,  hard,  right? It's  basically  pretty  hard  thing  to  do. It  turns  out  that  with  heat  pump  technology, you  can,  you  know, provided  that  the  electricity that  you  have  comes  from  a  renewable, let's  say,  solar  source. Now  it's  very  straightforward to  electrify,  right? But  you  have  to  think  about  that,  too. Just  because  you  electrify, doesn't  mean  it's  a  good  thing. If  that  electricity  has  come  from a  cold  fired  power  plant,  you  know, and  that,  with  its 40  whatever  percent  efficiency, and  then  you're  feeding that  into  the  heat  pump, you  have  to  see  then  if that's  actually  a  better  approach than  burning  with  u  you  know, with  natural  gas  here  and  now, the  other  thing  too  to  the  points about  the  distribution  and  all  of  that, there  are  sort  of  embedded  biases. But  also,  these  things  last  a  long  time. You  look  at  like  a  furnace, I  think  it's  like  20  years. So  you're  not  going  to  suddenly  go in  overnight  and  probably  rip  all  that  out. They're  going  to  look  at  okay,  end  of life,  what  sort  of  makes  sense. Now  we  do  the  upgrade  with  it  there. There's  other  things  that  come  into  play. Towards  the  regulations  here, even  in  Berkeley,  if  you  have a  place  it's  Bezo. Basically,  every  person  who  has  a  property, they  come  out  and  they  inspect  your  home, and  they  tell  you  on  a  rating  of one  to  ten  how  good you  are  on  a  sustainability  scale  with  it. And  those  people  are  people, some  of  you  in  class, engineers  who  would  go  out  and  then assess  this  and  then  make  recommendations. And  a  lot  of  them  actually  have  very little  to  do  with  that.  They're  windows. So  the  number  way  you  lose heat  is  through  what's  called  glazing  there, so  you  look  in  and  first  thing you  upgrade  is  on  insulation. But  this  is  an  important  way. Okay,  you  can  tell  I  have  no  passion  about this  and  no  interaction  whatsoever. Um  So  when  we  look  at  it. So  what's  more  common?  What's  more common  than  heat  pumps  in  the  United  States, at  least  historically,  is  refrigeration, right,  refrigeration  you  have,  but  also, like  air  conditioning  for Vasaz  of  the  US,  right? You  have  air  conditioning  that's  done  at  home called  usually  central  air. And  the  way  that  that  works, no,  is  you  have  this  compressor, you  compress  the  refrigerant, you  send  it  through  a  coil,  right? So  that's  like  fans  you  hear  you  know, moving  air  over  a  hot  coil, transferring  heat  outside, throttling  valve,  cooling,  right? So  you  basically  the  thing  about the  boiling  of  the  refrigerant,  right? It's  a  efficient  mechanism,  a  heat  transfer. So  then  you're  going  to  cool  down  that  air, you  blow  that  and  that  cool sort  of  your  house. The  heat  pump,  as  we  know  it  now, which  usually  heat  pump, if  you  read  it  in  the  newspaper, which  again,  you  all read  the  articles,  you  know, the  heat  pump  then  is  where  you're transferring  thermal  energy  from the  outside  at  a  colder  temperature, and  you're  pumping  that  in  to warm  your  house. And  so  that's  sort  of  like  a  reversed  you  see here  the  switch  that's  happening  here, then  that  compressor  is then  sending  the  fluid through  this  inside  coil. And  out  here,  And we'll  get  at  the  end  of  the  lecture, then,  you  know,  how  is  it? You  know,  you  think  I'm  from  the  Midwest, and  there  it's  ridiculous. You'd  say,  Okay,  it's like  zero  degrees  outside. How  are  you  going  to  like  pump  heat from  zero  into  your  home? It  sounds  ridiculous, but  it's  possible,  right? Yeah.  And  for  a  lot  of  those  systems,  too, there  is  a  point  where the  colder  that  you  try  to transfer  heat  from  the  outside, the  coefficient  and  performance starts  to  decrease. So  in  those  systems,  I'm told  they  also  have, resistive  heating  elements. So  when  it  gets  really  cold  and the  COP  can't  keep  up, then  you  go  for  more  of the  direct  burning  approach or  whatever  where  you  effectively, you  take  all  the  electricity and  you  convert  it  right  to  heat. But  that's  very  costly,  right? Also,  you  can  imagine  that's a  big  stress  on  the  grid. If  suddenly  everyone  switches  over  from  a  COP of  three  to  effectively  a  one,  right? That's  going  to  not  look, you  know,  very  good,  right? Cool.  So  yeah,  again,  that's  this. The  more  familiar  element  is again  with  the  refrigerated  space. The  device  is  the  same. What  you  would  call  this  as, like,  a  physicist,  you  know, if  you  wanted  to  give  it  a  name it's  called  vapor  compression. So  vapor  compression  is  what  we generally  use.  So  you  have  a  compressor. You  got  a  vapor,  you  know,  It's  with  it. There  is  a  lot  of  research  that  goes  on  to look  into  replacing  these  systems, so  you  can  like  Google  for those  who  want  to  read  and  are real  bored  on  the  weekends because  the  classes  are  too  easy. You  know,  you  can  go  and read  about  solid  state. So solid  state  refrigeration is  something  that's, you  know,  seriously  being  looked at  here,  right? Yeah.  So  again,  this  is  just sort  of  a  reminder  before  I  then get  into  the  analysis  of  the  car  no, and  then  the  ideal  refrigeration  is  again, for  refrigeration  systems,  heat  pump  systems. It's  just  like  everything else  when  we're  ranking  it. We  have  the  desirable  quantity  in the  numerator  and  what  we have  to  pay  in  the  denominator. When  it's  a  refrigerator,  right, your  desired  output  is the  heat  transfer  from, you  know,  on  the  cold  side  of  it, divided  by  the  network  in the  network  in  for  this  is  usually just  the  work  into  the  compressor, right,  we  don't  have  You  know, we  don't  have  like  a  turbine or  anything  else  on  the  other  side. It's  just  the  throttling  elements  that's basically  heat transferred  from  the  cold  and  the  work  in. And  then,  what's  the  heat  pump  rate, It's  then  the  heat  transferred  from the  hot  coil  into  your  environment, divided,  also,  then  basically by  the  work  into  the  compressor. All  right.  You  know, as  we  had  said  before, when  we  looked  at  Rankin, we  said,  Okay,  I  take my  working  fluid.  In  this  case,  right? The  working  fluids  that  we  tend  to work  are  presently  done are  things  that  are  like  R  134  A,  right? These  are  like  flu  fluorocarbon  refrigerants. They  have  been  for  a  super long  you  know,  time. They  have  this  sort  of  vapor  dome  rights? You  have  this  TS  diagram  that  I draw  you,  you  know,  here. So  just  like  with  water, where  we  have,  you  know,  familiarity. For  this,  you  have  to  go  with  the  tables. It's  the  same,  you  know,  thing. So  here  you  have  your  liquid, your  saturated  region,  your  vapor, your  suedd  vapor. And  you  know, just  like  with  the  Rankin  cycle, we  said,  boy,  wouldn't  it  be great  if  I  could  just  go  and  draw, you  know,  square  box  like  that. And  it  would  work  perfectly. It's  the  same  challenges like  we  had  with  Rankin. So  were  the  challenges  we  had  with Rankin  when  we  drew  the  box  like  that? One.  Mm  hmm. So  there's  a  refrigerant. Yeah,  but  it's  you  have  the  mixture. And  then  what's  the  challenge  with  mixtures? Yeah.  You  pump  it through  a  compressor,  right? You  know,  you  can  think  to  as  well. You  know,  if  you  looked  at,  like,  what  would be  the  work  to pump  through  a  compressor,  right? It's  like,  maybe  like  a  P  two the  compressor  here  is  literally  three, right,  three  minus,  you  know,  P,  P  two. So  the  one  thing  is  that  if you  start  having  things  with  sort  of, you  know,  very  high  specific  volumes, it's  going  to  be  a  lot  of  work  to  do. But  having  things  where it's  sort  of,  like,  not  constant, where  you're  starting  into this  variable  that  they're  not  really, you  know,  made  to  do  that. So  it's  challenging  to  pump like  a  multi  phase basically  to  pump  a  multi  phase  system  there. Yes,  please.  Separate.  Definitely. And  what  do  you  think  those  are  called? Yeah,  separator.  We  had,  you  know, we  had  a  flash  chamber,  right? So  that  was  part  of  right? The  one  problem  was the  flash  chamber  where you  take  the  liquid  out, and  yeah,  so  I  think  other  things are  called  traps  traps  and  stuff. So  these  elements  do  exist  there. But  that's  a  good  question. Okay,  yeah,  exactly.  So,  you  know, we'd  love  to  draw  it  like  that. And  because  we  can,  you  know, we're  just  using  our  imaginations, we  draw  it.  What  would  it  look  like? Right?  So  again,  two  to  three,  fine,  you  say, whatever  I  came  over the  great  compress  or  I  can pump  like  this  and  then  it's  on  tropic. I  do  my  heat  transfer,  you  know, autumn  out  at  the  high  temperature,  you  know, the  heat  transfer  in  then at  at  the  cold  temperature. And  the  one  device  that  we're  not  going  to see  when  we  move  forward  is  what  we  see  4-1. Four  to  one  here  for  this  cycle  would  have  to be  a  turbine,  right? I  would  have  it  would  have  to be  a  turbine  year,  right? Because  you  want  this  to be  an  isotropic  device, right?  It's  a  work  transfer. The  reality,  as  we  have  drawn  it  before, is  that  that  device,  when  we  look  at it  is  a  throttling  vl,  right? It's  like  something  that,  you  know,  it's got  porous  plug  or, you  know,  a  big  pressure  drop  that  happens. And  Well, I've  spent  a  lot  of  time  talking  about  it. I'm  just  going  to  say,  this  is  not an  isentropic  process. What  is  this  process? Iyopic.  It's  automatic.  All  right. So  exactly.  So  your  four  to  one  here, in  that  case,  it's  an  isythopic  process. And  what  you'll  see  is  that instead  of  it  being  a  vertical  line  here, it's  going  to  do  something  like  that,  right? When  we  go  to  the  idealized to  the  idealized  cycle,  right? So  four  to  one,  right, there  is  then  an  increase  in, you  know,  a  change  in  entropy  and  increase in  entropy  from  there  to  there. Okay.  Great.  All  clear. Okay,  so  this  is  then  again, sort  of  the  analogy  then  for, you  know,  what  rankin  is  to the  vapor  power  cycle. This  is  the  equivalent for  the  refrigeration  cycle. So  your  elements  are  the  compressor, you  know,  condenser  expansion  valve,  right? So  we've  gotten  rid  of  the  turbine  there. So  the  turbine  is  an  expansion  valve, and  then  another  heat  exchanger, which  we  call  the  evaporator. And  it's  evaporator  because  you  are  taking saturated  refrigerants  and  you  boil it  to  cool  that  off  there. You  TS  diagram.  So  one  to  two. This  is  your  work  process. This  is  your  compressor  here. So  you  start  off  as a  saturated  vapor  or  you  move  up. Two  to  three  is  a  heat  exchanger, right?  So  this  is  isobaric. You're  going  to  follow a  line  of  constant  pressure, and  this  is  where  you  transfer  heat out  to  the  hot  side. So  again,  if  it's  a  refrigerator, this  is  into  your  house,  if  it's  a  heat  pump. This  is  also  into  your  house. If  it's  a  an  air  conditioning  system, then  this  would  be  what's  transferred then  out  to  the  environment outside  of  the  building. Three  to  four  prime  then  would  be  if this  element  was  like  a  turbine, right  is  and  tropic. But  it's  an  expansion  valve. As  you  said  here,  it's  isnhopic. And  so  that's  the  line  of  consonantalp. So  three  to  four  is  what that  actually  looks  like. And  then  four  to  one  is then  is  then  the  heat that  you  transfer  then  from  the  cold  space. And  so  what  do  you  think  you  sacrifice in  going  from,  you  know, using  maybe  a  more  sophisticated  device like  a  turbine  to  an  expansion  valve. What's  the  penalty  for  that? Yeah,  I'm  saying  here, Yeah,  if  you  had  here  a  turbine instead  of  the  expansion  valve? What  would  be  a  benefit? So  that's  one  thing? What's  the  other  benefit? It's  a  good  benefit. If  I  don't  give  you  candy, you  guys  are  quiet.  Alright. So  lesson  learn. Talk  to  me  about  the  change in  entropy  during  that. I  and  tropic.  And  so  what's the  difference  between  four  prime  and  four? Yeah.  And  why  is  that  relevant if  we're  thinking  about a  heat  transfer  process? Well,  talk  to  me  about  where  is  it  going. So  I  say  my  heat  transfer  process  is  4-1. Yes. And  why? Difference  Yeah.  Therefore. Exactly.  And  so  if  I'm  looking at  this  transfer  from  a  reservoir, then,  effectively,  you  know, from  let's  say  my  cold  space  there, then  if  I  had  a  bigger  difference  in  DS, I'd  have  a  bigger  queue,  right? So  that's  a  real  penalty  in  doing  it, but  honestly,  that's  a  pretty  simple  thing. So  probably  on  an  economic  basis, it  doesn't  make  sense  to  have  a  thing  with, like,  100  blade  spinning versus,  you  know,  a  tiny  plug. All  right?  Yes,  please.  Alexander. Four  prime  would  then  be  the  isotropic, right  because  that  would be  the  vertical,  right? That's  the  vertical  line around  this  TS  diagram. S  is  the  horizontal  axis. So  three  to  four  prime is  vertical,  so  that's  isotropic. And  then  three  to  four  follows a  line  of  continental  p  there. U?  One  One  in  two  is  vertical,  though? O?  What  do  you  mean?  Oh,  no,  no. So,  So  the  first  thing  you have  to  notice  is  that  they change  the  numbering,  right? So  one  here  is  before  the  compressor, and  one  in  here  is  before  the  evaporator. And  I  don't  know  why  Singles  did  that. Maybe  Ohio  state  had  a bad  football  game,  you  know? Okay.  Which  they  usually  don't. So  I  don't  know  why  I  did  that. But,  yeah,  that's  the  point is  that  that  starts  with  one, why  you  shift  it. Now  that's  my  question.  Do  you. Why  would  you  operate your  compressor,  No  in  this  way. Yeah,  you're  not  going  to pump  the  multiphase,  right? You  want  to  have a  single  phase  that  you  pump  with. So  you  move  that  out.  So  that's  why  you  shift that  out  to  here  and  do  that. Okay?  Good  questions. Okay.  And  then  the  final  thing  is  then if  you  want  to  put  a  PH  diagram. So  this  is,  like,  another  way. I  mean,  I'm  not  expecting  you  to  really, Well,  you  should  know  things, but  the  point  is  that  if  you  end  up working  in  this  area, it's  very  common  to  see  PH  diagrams. So  it's  very  common  to  see these  cycles  presented  in  this  way. It's  no  different  than  a  TS  or  anything else  that  you've  seen. You  have  the  vapor  dome. It  looks  a  little  kind of  looks  like  a  wave,  you  know? Like  I  don't  know. But  you'll  see  it  presented  a  lot of  times  like  like  that. And  then  the  three  to  four  process, which  is  isnthopic. It's  a  nice  part  about  this. You  can  see  that  that's a  vertical  line  there,  okay? Great.  Any  questions  before I  continue?  Okay.  Yeah. And  then,  again, I've  already  written  this,  but, um,  because  each  of these  things  are  steady  flow  devices. So  if  we're  looking  then  at  the  QL and  the  W  net, we  can  start  with  the  W  net. It's  a  steady  flow  device. The  mass  flow  rate  doesn't change  between  each  of  the  systems. So  the  work  in  is,  you  know, t  two  minus  one.  All  right. And  then,  the  heat transferred  from  the  cold  space  is  then, M  dot  one  minus  H  four. If  you  take  that  ratio,  the  dots  drop  out. And  so  what  you  end  up  is H  one  minus  h4hh  two minus  h  one,  pretty  cookie  cutter. And  then  for  the  heat  pump,  right. The  only  difference  is  that  it's the  difference  the  numerator  is  then the  difference  in  enthalpies on  the  hot  side,  right? H  two  minus  H  three,  right  is  then  you  know, the  heat  transferred  on  a  per  mass  basis to  your  warm  environment, and  then  the  work  in  is still  the  same  because  we  don't  have, as  was  noted  here,  any, you  know,  workout  from  the  system. Yes,  please. Straight  to  that  write  using. No,  you  can  write  what  you  want, but  you  got  to  tell  me why  you  write  it,  right? So  if  you  want  to  go  in, how  would  you  tell  me  this? What  would  you  write  here?  Mass. Well,  I'm  saying  here.  You  define  COP. COP  is  this  divided  by  this,  right? And  then  what  you  would  say  there  is, you  know,  right, constant  mass  flow  rate  through  the  system. You  know,  I  mean,  it's  easy  to  write an  M  dot  times  Delta  H, M  dot,  Delta  H,  and  then sort  of  cross  out,  you  know,  with  it. Yeah.  But  I  mean,  something  like this,  this  was  again, provided  that  it  looks  like, you  know  what  you're  talking  about, you  know,  with  it,  then  that's fine  for  me.  So But  I  don't  I  guess  if your  question  is  like  on  something  like, you  know,  problem  B  before. So  what's  the  best  way  to  do  it? You  know,  you  should  still  be,  you know,  defining  states,  right? You  should  be  like,  you  got  to  tell me  how  you  get  your  enthal  pies,  right? This  is  like  one  small  piece of  the  analysis  of  a  cycle. But  an  important  piece. So  yes,  please. I  mean,  here  you  only have  to  look  at  two,  right? There's  four  elements,  but,  you  know, if  you  just  want  to  look  at  the  heat, you  only  have  to  analyze  two of  the  devices,  right? So  here  you  have  a  control  volume. Here,  here's  the  states. That's  my  heat  out.  Is  M dot  Delta  H.  Here's  my  work  in. It's  my  M  dot,  here's  my  Delta  H.  The  ratio, by  definition,  COP  is Q  W.  What's  my  relation  for  Q? It's  this.  Here's  my  relation  for W.  And  what  are  my  assumptions  steady  flow? You  know,  so  steady  flow means  constant  mass  flow  rate, no  change  in  my  control  volumes  there. But  you  can't,  like, you're  not  going  to  be  able  to if  I  drew  a  control  volume around  the  two  devices  here, Alright,  if  you  basically draw  around  the  two  of  that's  fine. But  what  you're  going  to  end up  having  is  that  you're  going  to  have a  W  dot  and  a  Q  dot that  are  equal  to  each  other,  right? Or  some  version  of  that.  Or  you're going  to  need  to  then  know  the  Q. So  if  you  start  drawing  it  around  this, actually  need  to  draw  it  around the  other  device  because  you  have a  that's  QL  that's  coming  into  it. So  there's  I  mean,  you know,  different  strategies. So  you  can  draw  it  around  all  of  it. Right?  And  look  at  it  and solve  or  you  can  analyze these  two  and  do  it  that  way. If  you  draw  it  around  the  entire  thing, it's  not  going  to  work,  right? Because  you  need  to  know,  you  know, you're  probably  given  properties like  temperature  and  pressure. I  need  to  know  those  enthalpies. You  really  got  to  get  analyze this  part,  analyze  this  one. You  know,  give  me  a  quick  formula  with  it, tell  me  you  know  what  a  COP  or efficiency  is.  Write  the  numbers. Write  a  unit,  a  dimension, you  know,  so  Okay. Great.  So  now  let's  go  in  and analyze  now  the  ideal  one,  right? So  I  showed  you,  um  that  that  before,  M  m Instead  of  working  with  the  R  134  A, and  I  can  share  the  code  with  you  after, those  refrigerants,  like  R  134  A, due  to  regulations,  like  Sam had  mentioned,  are  being  phased  out. Most  things  that  contain  fluorinated chemistry  within  the  United  States and  globally  are  basically  being  banned. There,  there's  big  concerns about  bio  persistence  and  all  of  that. And  so  the  chemical manufacturers  have  really  distanced themselves  from  doing  this and  that  impacts  refrigeration,  right? So  like  everything  else. I  feel  like  how  people  dressed  out  in the  90s  or  reminds  me  of  my  childhood. So  what  old  is  new  again. So  what's  very  fashionable  now  in refrigeration  are  the  original  refrigerants, with  carrier  and  those  are  working  there. This  is  CO  two.  This  is  ammonia. And  this  is  things  I  believe  propane, or  there,  right? So  small  fridges. So  you  think  like I  don't  know  if  you  ever  see  like a  little  beer  fridge  or  something  in  a  store, those  run  on  propane  there. Why?  It's  a  flammable  substance. But  because  it's  in  small  enough  quantities, it's  not  really  a  fire  hazard  per  se. Ammonia.  If  those  of  you  eat  McDonald's, French  fries  and  ask  yourself, how  is  it  frozen  and  transported? That's an  ammonia  refrigeration  system  that  does  it? Do  you  want  to  meet  the  person? Old  engineering  mentor  does  exactly  that. And  then  CO  two,  if  you go  to  whole  foods  and  you  shop, whole  foods,  refrigerators run  on  carbon  dioxide. Right?  So  that's  kind  of  counterintuitive, 'cause  part  of  the  reason why  we  also  talk  about getting  rid  of  the  fluorocarbon refrigerants  is  that  well, actually,  does  anyone  know  why? Ozone  was  the  originals. That's  the  90s,  okay? That  was  the  90s  problem. Yeah,  global  warming  potential. So  you  can  talk about  global  warming  potential. So  in  global  warming  potential, one  unit  of  GWP  is  CO  two. If  you  look  at the  fluorocarbon  refrigerants  there. So  this  is,  let's  say,  equal  to  one. Fluorocarbon  refrigerants  are  measured  in 100  to  basically  thousands  of  that. So  every  system  leaks,  right? Every  system  basically  leaks. It's  a  super  highly  regulated, my  grandfather  used  to  install  these  systems, and  you  have  a  tank  of  this  stuff, and  it's  like  serious. Like,  you  release  like a  pound  of  this and  you're  in  big  trouble  for  it. One  because  it  costs  a  lot  of  money, and  two  because  of  the regulations  and  the  impact. But  this  is  another  important  driver  of that  is  that  this Yeah,  those  are  big  numbers,  right? So  a  small  amount, but  you  multiply  it  by  that. It  has  a  big  effect,  right? And  there's  serious  concerns  with, you  know,  further  development,  you  know, globally,  that  if  everyone  starts to  rely  on  technologies  like  we  have  here, based  on  that,  you  scale  it  up. It's  actually  going  to  be  really  important. So  there's  a  big  move  away  and  things  like whole  foods  and  that  already  and McDonald's  French  Fries  have  already, apparently  moved  on  from  it. Alright?  How  can  we  analyze  it? I  don't  recall  in  the  book.  Is  CO  two actually  in  the  textbook?  I  don't  remember. R  134,  I  remember. It  is,  but  CO  two  is  not,  right? I  don't  think  so.  Or  I  don't  remember. I  didn't  have  to  know that  when  I  was  a  student. So  we  can  give,  you  know,  a  simple  example. The  example  I'm  going  to  share  with  you. Again,  I  didn't  put  a  link, but  I'll  share  is  with  Kool  Prop. So  just  to  remind  you  Kool  Prop is  based  on  NIST, the  National  Institute  of  Standards. So  it's  kind  of  like  an  open  source Python  wrapper  of  the  NIST  software. The  syntax  is  a  little  bit different  than  what  you  did  with  IAP  WS, but  logically  the  same,  right? You're  defining  as  usual,  right,  like, temperatures,  pressures,  you  know,  qualities. And  then,  you  know, you'll  compute  your  processes. So  if  we  look,  if  I  draw  now,  you  know, this  compressor  feeding  into  my  condenser, you  know,  my  throttling  element  here, heat  exchanger,  and  back  in. Maybe  I'll  move  to  the  center.  All  right. So  if  we  go  like  that, and  just  to  be  consistent, let  me  get  the  numbering  right. So  one,  this  is  your  work. This  is  Q  H,  right? This  is  Q  L.  This  is  two. This  is  three,  and  this  is  four,  right? Um  So  what  we're  given  in  the  problem, we're  told  here  what  P  one  is, or  P  one  is  equal  to one  times  ten  to  the  6  pascals,  right? That's  basically  1  megapascal. That's  an  important  thing  in  ol  Prop. It  works  really  in  SI  units. And  entering  into  the  compressor  here, you're  told  you  have  a  quality  that's  equal to  is  equal  to  one. Does  that  make  sense?  Well,  this  device here  is  an  evaporator. So  you  start  off  with  a  saturated  liquid here,  you  evaporate  completely, and  you  become  a  vapor  in  this  case, that  would  make  sense  here  to  have  quality of  one  with  that. P  two,  you  should  have  an  expectation  of a  higher  pressure  after  the  compressor. So  this  is  3.64.  MPA. That's  pretty  high,  right?  That's  36 that's  basically  36  bar, 36  times  atmospheric  pressure. That's  one  difficult  thing  with carbon  dioxide  is  a  fluid. It's  not  like  the  other  refrigerants where  you  raise  it  just  a  couple  of  bar. Here  you  really  have  to  up  it. And  this  makes  handling  kind  of  an  issue. So  if  you  have  a  system and  there's  like  a  fire  with  it, there's  a  lot  of  thinking  that  goes into  how  to  handle  that in  safe  relief  with  it. 2-3,  it's  a  heat  exchanger. So  what  do  we  say  about  pressure  three? Same  as  what?  P  two. Exactly.  So  P  three  is  equal  to  P two  there.  This  is  the  ideal,  right? So  this  is  the  ideal,  you know,  vapor  compression  cycle. So  what  do  you  think  you  could say  about  State  two  relative  to  state  one? So  I  have  like  a  pump here  I'm  putting  work  in. This  is  the  ideal  case. I  have  to  find all  the  properties  that  I  have  at  State  one. I'm  giving  you  a  pressure  at  state  two, but  you  need  basically  one  other  property here  in  order  to  know  complete  information. Isotropic.  Exactly.  So  out  of  this,  right, you  would  compute  our  H one  and  our  S  one,  right? And  the  point  is  that  S  two is  equal  to  S  one,  right? That's  that  vertical  line,  right? So  when  we  looked  at  the  vertical  line  here, you  know,  one  to  two,  that's isotropic  there,  right? Great.  So  now  we  come  to  the  P  three. The  other  thing  that's going  to  happen  here,  right? This  is  a  condenser,  right?  This  device here  is  a  condenser,  two  to  three. So  you  come  in  right  as a  compressed  vapor  up  here,  right? You're  in  the  superheated  I'm  sorry, superheated  vapor  up  here, and  you  transfer  this  heat  out until  you  hit  this  point  here. So  what  can  you  say  about  this  state? You  know  the  pressure? This  is  equal  to  P  two. What  else  do  you  know? The  weekends  coming  soon. Quality.  Quality  is  zero,  right? And  that  makes  sense, right?  It's  a  condenser. You're  taking  this  vapor, you're  bringing  it  down  to  a  liquid. So  your  quality  here,  X three  is  going  to  be  equal  to  zero. We  know  everything  about  this,  right? I  know  my  H  three  now. I  know  my  S  three  at  this  point. I  know  my  H  two. I  already  know  what  my  S  two  is, and  then  it  comes  to  state  four. What  do  we  know  about  state four  relative  to  state  three? I  heard  a  word.  In  Inopic,  right? So  your  H  four,  right? Is  equal  to  your  H  three. What  else  do  you  know  about  state  four? If  I  look  ahead  to  state one  and  not  from  Max. Alexander?  Say  it. Constant  pressure  with  respect  to. I  two  to  three  is  the  same  pressure. And  now  we're  talking  about  state  four. So  I'd  like  to  know  with  state  four, what  other  information  do  you  know besides  its  enthalpy  is the  same  as  state  three. So,  the  pressure  is  the  same  as  which  state? Well,  just  think  about  it. So  the  throat  of  the  element,  the  whole  point is  we  have  a  huge  pressure  drop from  state  three  to  Ste  four  to  then get  it  ready  to  boil  there. So  you  should  expect  that  it should  be  much  lower  than  it. So  it's  not  the  same  as  state  three. But  if  you  look  ahead  to  stay  one, Maybe  I'll  go  to  Howard.  Temperature. So  the  temperature,  that's  fair. So  what  you're  telling  me is  the  temperature  of  what  though? Temperature  of  state  four  is? Okay,  so  we  can  say  T  four  is  equal  to  T  one, and  that  would  work  because  we  could  also compute  T  one  here. Totally. Yes.  What's  another  way?  Yes.  And  why? Yes. Exactly.  So  that's  nice. So  two  different  ways of  sort  of  looking  at  that. Problem  both  valid  with  it,  right? And  that  works  because  in  this  case, right,  this  is  a  boiling  process,  right? So  this  is  boiling,  so  the  pressure  and the  temperatures  would  be  the  same. Howard,  would  that  work  if  we  were  at a  higher  entropy  with  state  one  though? Let  me  ask  you  another  way. Would  your  statement  of  T  one  being equal  to  T  four  always  work  there? Someone's  ready  for  the  weekend. Yes.  No,  right? It  would  become  difficult if  you  were  out  here,  right? Because  if  you  stayed  with that  constant  pressure and  state  one  was  out  here, that  temperature  would  be  higher, but  it  works  because this  is  the  boiling  process, and  you  end  here  at  that saturated  vapor  with  it. Yeah.  So  it's  definitely  valid. I  just  want  to  point  out  that for  a  heat  exchanger, you  know,  this  is  really what  we  do,  right  there. We  assume  no  pressure  drop  across  it, but  because  this  is  a  boiling  process, it  also  happens  to  be  true that  T  four  is  also  equal  to T  one  as  visible  from  the  TS  diagram,  okay? So  that's  it,  right? So  you  have  everything  now. We  got  enthalpies  at  each  of the  right  at  each  of  the  states, so  we  can  go  now  and  compute  our  QL,  right? So  our  QL. In  this  case,  would  be,  and  again, we  assume  we  have  an  M  dot a  mass  flow  rate  that's  moving  through  it. The  mass  flow  rate  we're  told, and  this  problem  is  0.05  kilograms/second. And  so  this  is  going  to  be  an  M  dot,  right? And  we  look  at  this,  I  mean, we  could  write  it  out  and  do  it, or  we  can  understand that  I'm  transferring  heat  into that  control  volume  of excuse  me  of  the  evaporator. So  entropy  one,  right at  state  one  is  going  to  be higher  than  the  entropy  at state  four,  right?  Because  it's  a  heat  in. And  that  would  be  your  Q  dot  sorry,  Q  dot. M  dot  W  net is  basically  equal  to  just  w  in  here, the  Wt  is  happening then  between  states  two  and  one. We  have  an  M  dot,  and  then  this  would  be two  minus  one  there. We  also  have  some  fun  and  just  do  it for  the  heat  transfer  to  the  hot  side. So  Q  dot  then  is  equal  to  m  dot. And  then  that's  times. Right? The  entropy  at  state  two  right  is  higher than  at  state  three  because  you have  heat  coming  out, so  H  two  minus  H  three  there. But  this  is  the  All  right, The  ideal  vapor  pressure  refrigeration. So  the  thing  is  that  what  we  care  about  in refrigeration  is  the  QL  relative  to  the  WN. So  our  COP,  in  this  case, is  going  to  be  our  Q  dot  L divided  by  our  w.net,  right, which  in  this  case,  w.net  is  simply the  Q  L  divided  by  W  N.  All  right. I  mean,  just  for  no  reason,  I  can  give you  the  values  that  I  compute  and  share. I  mean,  in  this  case,  we  have  a  q  dot  L  of 11.5  kilowatts  here  are W  N  is  equal to  two  point  let's  say  2.9  kilowatts. There,  that  he  rejected then  to the  hot  side  is  then  basically  the  sum. It's  the  sum  of  the  two.  And  it's the  sum  of  the  two  because  you  could draw  a  control  volume around  this  entire  thing. And  if  it's  steady, then  what  is  transferred out  must  be  equal  to  what  goes  in. So  the  WN  plus  the  QL  is  equal  to  the  QH. That's  another  way  you  could  solve for  the  Q  dot  is  that  it  could  just  be  Q plus  W  And  that  is  then 14  basically  14  kilowatts  there,  right? Can  that  be  right?  Hold  on.  11142  point maybe  I  should  rate  this  better. 2.82  0.87  kilowatts  there.  This  one's  11.5. And  then  what  I  have  calculated  here is  a  14.4  kilowatts. Yeah.  Okay.  U  Maybe I'll  just  get  rid  of  that  for  a second  and  write  it  that  way. But  in  principle,  you  can also  analyze  it  that  way  to get  the  Q  the  Q  dot. If  we  put  then  these  in,  right? So  then  the  Q  dot  L  11.5  divided  by  the  2.87, then  you'd  have  a  COP  that's four  point  there. That's  a  pretty  good  number. Four  point  for  a  COP  is  a  pretty  good  number. Like  present  day  research  tries  to  take this  value  and  get  it  up  like  678910. But  to  do  that, you  can't  do  vapor  compression. You  have  to  look  at  new  technology, solid  state  refrigerant, and  that  to  get  to  those  values. Yeah,  so  that's  pretty  much  it. So  like  I  said,  this  is,  you  know, sort  of,  again,  like we  had  done  for,  you  know, the  steady  state  analysis of  the  steady  flow  systems  before, where  we  primarily  relied  on  entropy  changes. That's  no  different  here. The  key  thing  is  that,  you  know, where  entropy  is  really  used  then  is  in the  analysis  of  the  work  devices,  right? So,  pretty  much  here,  we  use entropy  for  that, but  the  rest  of  it  is  not  really that  different  from  what  we  had  done. You  know,  before,  okay? And  really, then  the  other  point  I  want  to  drive home  was  what  was emphasized  at  the  beginning, is  that  you're  not generating  energy  here,  right? So  you're  not  taking  first  of  all, you  can  never  create  energy,  Einstein. Second  thing  is  that,  you  know, the  way  that  sort  of the  trick  that's  done  is  that  it's  this, you  know,  work  that  you  put in  that  it's  moving  the  heat,  right? Pumping  the  heat  there,  and  that  you're transferring  effectively  here  or  here, three  times  the  amount  of  energy  is what  is  what  you  putting  in,  right? But  as  you  would  see  from  a first  law  analysis,  right, the  Q  dot  must  be  equal  to Q  dot  plus  the  Wt,  right? Cool.  I'm  going  to  show  one  other  plot. And  then  you're  all  amazing refrigeration  experts. I  want  to  look  at  something  with the  electric  heat  pump, because  this  is  an  important  consideration when  selecting  and  sort of  using  the  heat  pump is  what  is  sort  of  the  outdoor, you  know,  temperatures,  okay? Because the  outdoor  temperature  strongly  affects whether  or  not  the  COP  is  high  enough. And  the  one  area  where  that's  really important  presently  is  if you  look  at  something  like  Teslas. So  Teslas,  my  understanding in  Teslas  is  that  you  don't take  electricity  from  the battery  and  heat  the  cabin, but  you  actually  run a  heat  pump  there  to  do  the  heating. And  the  number  one  complaint  out of  the  Tesla  drivers, probably  where  they're  headed  is Is  range,  right?  If  you  basically  take if  you  need  to  heat  your  cabin, so  think,  you  know, cold  day  in  Iowa  and  you  want  to  drive  there, the  range  is  mostly, in  that  case,  going  to  be  severely limited  by  how  you  heat  there. All  right?  And  so  if  it's  very  cold, this  efficiency  drops, and  again,  my  understanding is  number  one  complaint. And  so  you  can  go  through  and  analyze  this, and  I'm  not  trying  to  show  you  code  for  that. What  I  want  to  do  is  to give  you  a  sense  of  what  this  looks  like, if  you  were  to  analyze it  as  sort  of  the  carno. So  the  COP,  there  is  one  of  an  engine. It's  one  minus  T  cold  over  T  hot. When  it's  a  coefficient  of  performance, it's  one  over  the  same  the  same  expression. And  if  you  go  in  and  you  say, Okay,  let's  say  it's,  you  know, 20  celsius  at  my  u  you  know, or  my  hot  side  is  basically  20  Celsius. Let's  say  my  cold  side  is  some  really  cold, you  know,  value,  and  we can  plot  some  changes  there. If  you  go  in  and  plot  that  COP  as a  function  of  pumping the  heat  from  that  cold  outside, what  you'll  see  is  that  when  you're approaching  is  a  log  plot,  mind  you,  right? So  this  is  ten,  right? Is  a  massive  value. When  you're  pumping  heat  into your  cabin  or  your  home, and  the  outside  temperature  is  pretty close  to  it,  it's  amazing,  right. The  theoretical  COPs that  you  can  get  are  very  high. Yes,  Jason. Sure. I  think in  this  case,  I've  done  it  down  here. I'm  sloppy,  but  that's  a  good  catch. Yeah.  But  I  was a  sloppy  coder  last  year  when  I  wrote  it. All  right,  good  question. But  what  is  when  you're  transferring  then, right  the  heat  then  in from  the  cold  reservoir, the  outside  into  let's  say  your  home or  your  model, whatever  letter  Elon  has. I,  right?  This  is  a  big  number. But  as  you  start  to  get  to colder  right  outside  temperatures and  to  pump  in, you  see  really  a  very  fast,  right? That's  pretty  much  like  exponential,  No. Like,  you  have  something  that  on a  logarithmic  scale  is  dropping very  rapidly  when  you  get  you  know, so  this  is  200  C,  right? This  is  300  Kelvin. I  mean,  even  at  something  that looks  like  it's  I  don't  know, in  the  270  ranges, you  know,  so  zero,  zero  C  or  whatever, this  basically  value  drops  a  lot. And  so  that's  another  thing  to sort  of  consider  when implementing  the  technology  is what's  going  to  be,  right? The  outside  temperature that  you're  working  with? Because  as  it  gets  colder and  colder,  obviously, you're  not  going  to  follow  Carno if  you  did,  Bravo,  amazing. But  that's  not  going to  be  probably  what  happens. So  that  value  is  going  to  be  lower, but  the  sort  of  same  physics, the  same  behavior  you're going  to  be  subjected  to. So  if  a  perfect  conditions, you're  at  a  value  of  three  or  four, and  then  it  gets  very  cold,  right, you're  going  to  see  a  steep  drop  in  it. And  it  might  know  at  that  point, it  might  make  sense  and  then  switch over  to  something  that's  like  a  coil  heater, what  we  call  jewel  heating. That's  like  Space  heaters. Are  you  plug  something  into  the  wall? It's  like  how  most  buildings  get  burned  down. I  someone  like  leaves  that  on,  you know,  Sad.  Scary,  actually. But  it's  exactly  that. You  know,  high  energy,  you  know, high  quality  electricity  that you  just  waste  and burn  into  thermal  energy that  you  transfer  as  heat. And  that  goes  from  being  like  a  value here  to  this,  right? The  baseline  value  is  then  what  one  is. And  that's  effectively  what  je  heating  is, okay? Cool.  Any  questions  about  that? You're  all  refrigeration,  heat  pump,  experts. Carlos  is  ready  to  go  for  Monday  with  it. That's  great.  Okay,  well, with  that,  I'm  gonna  close  it. I  think  there  was  a  few  of  you  had  some questions  about  some  stuff, so  I  would  say,  we  use  the  time  now  for  it. Next  week,  I  get  a  bunch of  extra  office  hours. So  please  check,  you  know, the  mid  term  page  for  that. If  you  want  a  time  that doesn't  work  with  that, just  shoot  me  a  message. V  happy  to  oblige,  okay?  Thank  you.
