Okay,  so  today,  we're  going  to work  through  Bernoulli's  equation. So  we're  going  to derive  through  Bernei's  equation. And  then  after  that,  we're  going  to  continue with  the  general  entropy  balance. We're  going  to  work  at  two  problems  today. One,  we'll  do  an  entropy  change, and  then  at  the  end  of  it, with  the  heat  exchanger, if  you  had  a  chance  to  look  at the  at  the  slides. I  want  to  have  a  warm  up  one,  though, so  that  was  one  warm  up  poll. So  with  this, let's  look  at  this  problem  here. So  you're  given  the  I'm  not  visible. Left. You  given  the  following  scenario, which  I  will  open  in  a  second  here, which  is  that  you  have  a  container  of  air, 1  kilogram  at  1  bar. I  haven't  opened  it  yet. So  just  give  me  a  second. Sorry.  And  it's connected  to  an  evacuated  one, and  then  you  open  the  valve. And  the  question  and  this  both  sides are  kept  in  contact  with a  reservoir  at  300  Kalvin. And  the  question  is,  what  is  the  change in  entropy? Just  give  me  a  second  to  launch  it, and  then  we'll  we'll  get  started,  right? Cool.  Cool.  It  should  be  open  now. Let  me  share  with  this. Okay,  it  should  be  open.  So  go  through, discuss  with  your  neighbor  with the  group  you  feel  comfortable  with. Take  5  minutes,  and  then  we'll solve  through  it,  okay? Good.  Okay.  So,  so we  just  use  now  the  TDS equation  in  a  useful  way. I'm  now  going  to  go  through  and  work out  another  relation  for  you. This  has  then  a  bit  of  foreshadowing in  the  fluid  mechanics,  which  is  coming. Well,  how  many  in  here  take fluids  right  now?  Anybody? One,  two.  One  person's  not  in  the  class? Yes.  Okay.  Three.  Okay.  Well,  then you're  going  to  see  what's  been  derived  for you  in  a  different  way  today,  right? So  the  ration  I'm  going  to  do  is  called Bernoulli's  equation,  Bar  new  Lee. Alright?  The  name  Bernoulli. This  is  a  family  of very  famous  mathematicians, Swiss  mathematicians. And  did  a  number  of  things, and  I  think  Daniel  is  this  one  here, made  a  lasting  impact  in  fluids  with  it. Alright.  So  we  start  the  analysis  like  this. So  imagine  we  have,  a  pipe,  right? You're  gonna  ask  yourself, ris  huts,  is  is  ridiculous. You're  gonna  show  me a  pipe  and  whatever,  right? But  it  what  I  show  you  at  the  end, I  think  is  a  little  bit  profound. Imagine  you  have  a  pipe  like  this,  right? And  you're  bringing  some  you  know, M  dot  into  it,  right? And  we  can  treat  this as  like  our  control  volume,  right? All  right. Okay.  All  right.  And  we  can recall  our  conservation  equations. So  our  first  one  is that  for  this  control  volume, which  is  here,  right, the  mass  within  the  control  volume, DM  CV  dt  is  equal to  right  the  n  dot,  minus  the  nt. And  then  our  other  conservation  equation, right  is  our  energy. So  our  D  E  control  volume  d is  equal  to  e  n  minus e.  Is  it  okay?  All  right. Now  what  do  we  assume?  Here?  And  I'll get  to  what  this  has  to  do  with  NRP,  right? So  the  first  thing  we  assume  as usual  for  a  lot  of  our  stuff  is  we  have a  steady  state.  All  right. The  second  thing  is that  we're  incompressible. Income  press. What  does  incompressible  mean? What  property  doesn't  vary? Density,  or  specific  volume, right?  All  right. So  density,  which  is  then the  inverse  of  specific  volume. This  is  a  constant,  right? This  is  a  pretty  good  assumption, for  example,  like  water. Unless  you  get  to  like, really  extreme  conditions, its  density  is  is  not  going  to  vary  with  it. The  next  thing  we're  going  to  assume  about this  flow  is  that  it's  in  tropic.  All  right? Which  means  that  the  entropy  of the  fluid  when  it  enters  into  here  is going  to  be  the  same  as  when  it  exits, and  we  have  no  heat transfer  and  we  have  no  work. No  let's  say  shaft  or  electrical  work,  right? All  right. So  if  we  start  to  represent  our  E  dot. So  we  can  talk  about  the  generalized  formula for  our  e  dot  as  usual, for  systems,  where  we  don't  have  a  change  in the  size  of  the  control  volume  and  we're bringing  mass  in  and  out.  All  right? This  is  going  to  be  our  Q  dot plus  our  W  dot  plus  our  dot, right,  plus  velocity  squared  divided  by two  plus  g  plus  plus  g  z,  right? As  we  said  before.  We  have no  heat.  We  have  no  shaft  work. So  we're  left  with  this  formula. If  we  take  the  fact  that  this is  a  steady  state  here,  right? And  this  goes. So  m  dot  n  is  m  dot  out. We  can  just  call  this  as  m dot  is  equal  to  m  dot  n  minus  m  dot  out. And  then  here  e  dot  is  equal  to  e  dot,  right? So  with  our  e  dots,  we  come back  here.  We  substitute. And  so  what  we  would have  is  we'd  have  the  ent  p plus  the  velocity  squared divided  by  two  plus  g  z. I'm  going  to  put  the  number  one  here, so  the  one  denotes  the enthalp  velocity  in  height. And  then  this  is  equal  to  h plus  W  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z, and  then  this  is  for  state  two.  All  right. All  right.  So  maybe this  is  important  enough  to  maybe call  it  one,  right? The  next  form  that  I'm going  to  give  to  you  here  is  I'm going  to  say  that  the  t  S, little  S  is  equal  to  dH  minus  V  dp. Call  this  at  state  two. All  right. Alright.  And  so if  we  recall,  right? Are,  incompressible,  right? So  this  V  is  equal  to  a  constant. Right?  So  we  have  the  V  equals  to a  um  a  constant  here. What  it  means  is  that,  you  know, if  you  were  to  go  now  and integrate  with  these  things,  right? The  v  can  basically  be  taken outside  of  that  integral,  right? So  what  you're  going  to  end  up  with  then  is t  times  S  two  minus  S  one  is  equal to  two  minus  one  minus  v  times P  two  minus  P  one,  right? And  since  this  is  ice  and  tropic,  right? So  this  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one, or  state  two,  just to  be  clear  with  my  notation,  right? So  I  bring  this  back. This.  This  is  state  one. And  this  is  state  two.  All  right. Alright,  this  is  going  to  be  zero. So  you're  going  to  end  up  then with  H  two  minus  H  one. Is  equal  to  v  times  P  two  minus  P  one,  right? And  we  can  start  to rearrange  with  our  equation  one. So  if  I  take  equation  one  there, equation  one  and  I  rearrange  it. I'm  going  to  be  able  to  say  that  I  have W  one  squared  divided  by two  plus  g  z  one  is  equal  to  two  minus  one. Plus  W  two  squared  divided  by two  plus  g  z  two,  right? And  so  we  can  substitute. So  we  have  h2h1  and  H  two  and  H  one. So  we  can  simply  put  we  can  put that  term  in  space  here  is  this.  All  right. So  if  we  do  that,  then,  we  already  have is  W  one  squared  divided  by two  plus  g  z  one  is  then  equal  to  V, specific  volume  P  two,  minus  P one  plus  W  two  squared  divided by  two  plus  g  g  z  two, and  if  we  do  some  rearrangement. So  if  we  start  to make  differences  between  the initial  or  the  exiting and  the  entering  state, what  you're  going  to  have  is  zero is  equal  to  v  times P  two  minus  P  one  plus  one half  W  two  squared  minus  W  one squared  plus  g  z  two  minus  z  one. All  right. So  what  does  it  mean? So  we  call  that  Bernese  equation, by  the  way,  Bernoulli.  What  does  it  mean? I  think  we  worked  it  out  when  I derived  on  the  TDS  equations. I'm  happy  to  go  back  in  a  second. But  for  the  purposes  of  this,  this  one here?  To  or  one,  two. Yeah.  I  mean,  if  we  look  back  at the  definitions  of  TDS  with  DQ and  DW  and  we  took  out  the  differentials  of the  VDP  DP  DV  or  PDV  VDP  terms, and  then  the  definition  of enthalp  you  can  write  that. And  remember,  for  these  cases, the  volume  doesn't  change,  right? Yes.  So  what  does  it  mean? Sure.  I  relates  to  kinetic  sexual  energy. That  is  a  great  starting  point. Who  wants  to  build  on  that? You're  all  cooked. You're  all  on  the  left  side,  right  now, Sure.  No,  let's  go.  Am. Yes,  Amelia. Yes.  Yeah.  So  we're  getting,  yes,  exactly. Another  one.  Howard.  Yeah. That's  cool.  Yeah,  it's  not. Yeah. We're  not  thinking  about  the  whole  mass. We're  thinking  about  a  line,  right? So  we're  thinking  about  here. I  got  some  line  here  and  I  got  here. Right?  Sure. Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah.  Sure.  Yeah. No.  So  an  assumption here  was  that  we  had  steady, so  there  was  not  a  difference  in  the  in  the. They  were  the  same. So  the  first  assumption  was  steady. Yes.  Thank  you. Yes.  Okay.  One  more. We're  like,  right  on  the  edge. Think  about  this. This  is  a  fluid. What  is  your  experience  with  fluids? Yes,  I  do  wet  ability.  So  I appreciate  that  answer  a  lot,  right? What  causes  them  to  move? Oui  Other  fluids  can,  but  S.  Yes. That's  it.  It's  a  pressure  ation. And  what  Bernei's  equation tells  you,  I  remember, 'cause  I  had  a  chemical  engineering boss  when  I  worked, and  he  was  very  bright  out  of  Milwaukee. And  I  asked  him  one  time  at  dinner  and  said, What  is  Bernili's  equation  to  you? And  he  hadn't  taken  classes  in  30  years, and  he  said,  pressure on  a  fluid  causes  it  to  move. Isn't  that  ridiculously  simple? Right?  But  this  basically  tells  you  that. So  if  I  have  an  isentropic  flow  here, it  means  that  I  can transform  from  high  pressure, I  think,  static,  hydrostatic pressure.  You  know? So  let's  say  you  have  a  tall  column and  now  you  open  it  at  the  base. That's  going  to  produce  a  very  high  velocity, right?  You  know,  there. So  you  can  have  you  know,  changes  in  height that  can  become  velocity. You  could  have  high  pressure right  there  that  causes  something  to  move, things  like  that,  okay? And  the  point  here,  what's  implicit in  this  is  you  do  not  have  losses. You  do  not  have  friction. What's  friction  in  a  fluid? What  do  we  call  that?  Viscosity,  right? So  here  you  don't  have viscous  effects  within  this. So  where  do  you  think  this  is  not  valid? Now  we  go  real  deep?  Pesa  fluids  people. So  where  do  you  think  this  is  not  valid? In  Laminer  is  interesting  statement. You  think  it's  valid  in  a  very  tiny  pipe? No,  I'm  getting  head  shakes  from  there. That's  great. So  you're  gonna  have  a  lot of  friction,  and  this  is  not  gonna  be  valid. But  if  you  have  cases,  right  where  things are  more  open,  you're  far  from  walls, this  isn't  such  a  bad  thing,  but pressure  on  a  fluid  causes  it  to  move. Alright?  Great.  Any  questions  about  that? You're  all  super  good to  go  for  what  is  it  one oh  one  oh  six. Yeah.  You're  all  good  to  go. Pessor  Marcus  is  gonna love  you,  right?  Great.  Okay. Um  I  have,  like, one  more,  and  this  is  sort  of  up  to  you  all. If  you  are  completely  fatigued  out  of  it. I'm  also  happy  to  work  through  this  here. Groans.  Okay.  I'll  walk through  it.  I'll  walk  through  it. I'll  save  you.  I'll  save. W  this  the  mid  term? That  was  a  mid  term.  Was  it? If  that  was  a  mid  term  question, then  I  gave  you  the  wrong  mid  term. You're  gonna  get  extra  points then  if  you  got  it  right,  okay? Actually,  you  can  sit  out  mid  term  to  then. So  no,  let's  go  through  this. Let's  go  through  this. This  is  important,  right? Alright,  I  won't  have  it  as  a  poll, but  I'll  walk  through  and  we'll  solve  it. We'll  solve  it  together,  right. So  here's  the  problem.  All  right? This  is  getting  to  the  point about  Atropy  generation,  right? So  Atropy  generation  there. And  in  this  problem, we  have  a  heat  exchanger. And  because  we  have  a  heat  exchanger,  right, it  means  that  we're  transferring heat  from  something at  one  temperature  to  something at  another  temperature,  right? So  if  I'm  taking  heat out,  of  something,  right? Do  you  have  an  expectation  that  there's a  local  or  an  entropy reduction  within  that  system. But  then  if  you're  transferring  it into  another  fluid,  right? That's  potentially  colder  there, you're  going  to  end  up having  an  entropy  increase. And  that  process, even  if  it's  like,  you  know, a  system  where  they put  them  together  and  they're  one, can  still  increase  entropy. Right?  You  can  still  have  an  increase  in entropy  associated  with  it. And  so  then  that's the  third  question  that  we  have. So  let's  walk  through together  for  the  next  10  minutes. A  nice  journey  on  entropy  generation. I  also  want  to  note that  I've  solved  this  for  you. So  I  could  be  and  expect you  to  already  be  able  to  do  this,  right? But  since  you're  all  such  good  sports, I'll  do  it  today. Alright.  Good.  All  right. So  this  problem  here. Okay,  so  we  have  here  are  heat  exchanger, and  we're  told  air  is  being  kept warm  by  taking  steam  and  passing  it  through. So  we  have  steam  that's  coming in  to  this  tube. So  we  have  this  tube  here,  it's  coming  in  at 35  degrees  C.  It's  exiting  at  32. We  have  air  that's  coming  in  cold, 20,  not  that  cold, 20,  and  then  it's  coming  out  at  th,  right? And  again,  whenever  you  see, something  like  a  heat  exchanger. You  should  not  see  this  as  one  system. Do  not  see  this  as  one  system. This  could  be  one  system, but  there's  two  subsystems,  right? You  need  to  break  them  down,  right? If  you  want  to  make  this like  tractable  and  solvable, you  got  to  immediately recognize  when  you  want  to  break this  into  smaller  bits  and  work  through  it. An  obvious  way  for  that  is, especially  if  there's  two  different fluids  and  they  don't  interact, then  definitely  start  with  breaking  it  down. So  we  can  first  start  with  trying  to answer  this  aspect  of  the  heat  transfer  rate, We  can  ask  ourselves, do  we  have  enough  information at  State  one  and  two  or at  State  three  and  four  to  answer? If  we  look  at  State one  and  two,  we  see  temperature. We  say  that's  not  enough  information. It's  say  steam  there, so  that  means  it  could  be  a  low  pressure, but  you  are  giving  here the  enthalpies  with  it. So  it  looks  like  we  have  enough information  to  get  to  it. But  let's  see,  Let's see  if  we're  missing  something. So  we  have  our  heat  exchanger. I'm  going  to  draw  it  just  with  one  pass  just 'cause  I'm  not  an  artist  here. That's  why  I  have  this  job. So  if  one  that's  coming  in and  two  we  it  exits, we  come  in  with  an  M  dot  that's  known. And  we  have  an  expectation. So  this  is  our  control  volume, in  this  case,  is  right? You  know,  that  whole  serpentine  tube  there. And  what  we're  told  from  the  problem is  we  have  an  expectation  that there's  going  to  be  a  Q  dot  out,  right? There's  going  to  be a  Q  dot  that's  leaving  it,  right? So  you  go  in,  you  look  at  this,  and  it  right. It's  a  heat  exchanger.  It's  steady,  right? I  have  all  by  all  indication that  this  is  steady  here. U  So  we  have  just  an  m  dot  is  m  dot  out. If  we  look  at  our  e  dot  equation  here, so  say  our  e  dot,  right? We  have  our  Q  dot  plus  w  plus  m  dot, since  it's  a  constant one  plus  W  one  squared  by  two  plus  gz  two, and  then  et  out,  which  is,  again, q  dot  plus  w  plus  m  two  plus W  two  squared  plus  g  is  gz  one  and  two. All  right. Neglect,  kinetic  and  potential  effects. Alright.  We  do  not  have  heat  transferred  in. We  don't  have  any  work  transfer. We  expect  heat  transferred  out, as  I  indicated,  but  no  work. So  as  usual,  so  if  we  say  that  again, it's  steady  state,  e  dot is  equal  to  e  dot  out. What  we  end  up  with  is  that  m.h1  on the  left  hand  side  is  equal to  q  dot  plus  m.h2, which  implies  that  Q  dot, which  I  can  call  let's  say  O  Q  dot  out. And  maybe  I'll  put  out  Yeah, let's  say  Q  dot  out  there  is  equal  to  the  m dot  two  minus  one  minus  two,  right? Is  that  clear?  All  right. This  should  be,  like,  you know,  it  should  be  a  reflex. All  right?  So  you  have  the  Q  dot  there. So  then  what  is  the  mass floret  of  air,  right? So  here,  now  we  look  at our  other  control  volume, and  I'm  not  even  going  to  attempt  to  draw  it. I'm  just  going  to  say,  All  right, maybe  this  is  some  system like  this  for  the  air.  All  right. We  recognize  that  if  there's  a  Q  dot out  from  here,  right? It  must  be  aq.in  to  here, and  what  does  that  control  volume  look  like? Right?  That  control  volume  looks like  everything  inside the  air  tubing  container  there,  right? So  we  have  that. We  make  the  same  assumptions as  we  did  before, but  the  steady  states  and  the  e dot  s  and  the  e  dot  outs, except  in  this  case, for  our  e.in,  right? O  e  dot  n  is  going  to  be  q  dot  n  plus  m  dot, and  what's  entering  H  three. All  right,  we're  going  to neglect  all  those  other  effects. O  E  dot  out.  We  don't  have  a  Q. We  don't  have  a  W.  What  we  have  is  we  have  m dot  times  H  four. And  what  I'm  going  to do  to  differentiate  from the  dot  of  the  water  is, I'm  just  going  to  call  this  ir. We'll  call  this  m  dot  ir  there. And  so  if  the  e  dot  n  is  the  e  dot  out, then  Q  dot  n  is  equal  to m.r4  minus  H  three,  right? All  right. So  we  have  enough  information to  do  H  four  and  H  three here?  So  the  pressure. We  don't  have  a  pressure  change across  the  heat  exchange  means  the pressure's  constant.  I  have  temperatures. I'm  given  temperatures  between state  three  and  four. So  what's  your  reflex? What  do  you  think? What's  your  street  fighting  mentality? Jupiter.  Jupiter  is  a  good  one. Jupiter  is  a  worthy  thing. I'm  not  giving  you  Jupiter because  I'm  solving  it,  alright? Yeah,  exactly.  So  I  have  a  CP  specific at  times our  t  four  minus  R  t  three. And  so  with  that,  we  can  rearrange  this. We  say  that  Q  dot  n is  equal  to  q  dot  or  Q  dot, we  solve  over  there. And  then  with  our  mt, our  dot  and  our  dot  then  is  equal  to. This  Q  dot,  from  before, divided  by  Cp  times  t  four  minus  t  three, and  the  Q  dot,  just  to  remind  you  then  was the  dot  of  the  water  H  one  minus  H  two. And  then  this  would  then  be  divided  by CP  t  four  minus  t  three. And  that's  your  M  dot  r. All  right.  And  again, what's  essential  to  that  is  to break  this  into  the  two  systems, solve  them  both,  you  know, steady  with their  respective  masses  in  and  out. And  then  with  this,  you  can  get the  dot  r,  right? So  if  the  final  part.  All  right? So,  with  this  whole  antropy  analysis, it's  not  so  different  to the  analysis  of  the  um, of  the  control  volumes. But  what  I'm  going  to  do  here  is  I'm  now going  to  be  able  to  put  them all  together,  right? So  instead  of  drawing  the control  volumes  around  one  and  the  other, let's  say  this  is  my  combined  heat  exchanger, so  here's  my  air. So  that's  state  what  state  three,  coming  in. Here's  my  state  four,  exiting  for  it. My  water  is  coming  in  here  at  state  one. It's  exiting  at  at  state  two.  All  right? And  let's  draw  my  control  volume like  this,  right?  Okay. So  the  rate  the  rate of  change  of  entropy in  my  control  volume  versus time  is  equal  to S  dot  n  minus  S dot  plus  S  dot  generated,  right? And  so  that's  what  we're  interested  in. So  I'm  giving  you  now,  like  a  third  equation like  the  dots  and  the  dots. Now,  I'm  giving  you  the  S  dot  one, and  we're  going  to  be  able  to  solve for  this  one  here,  right? So  what  term  can  I  get  rid  of  immediately? I'm  Mona  start  bringing  candy  next  time. Gone.  Steady  state  out. Alright?  So  S  dot  gen  is, again,  this  is  just  accounting,  right? So  S  dot  en  is  equal  to St  minus  S  dot,  right? I'd  say  it's  not  rocket  science, but  you  do  need  to  know the  stuff  to  build  some  rockets. So  you  have  here  the S  dot  outs  and  the  S  dot. So  what  does  that  look  like? So  that  looks  like. Right?  So  what's  the  terms  leaving? So  we  have  an  M  dot  times  what  S  four? All  right.  That's  what's  going  out.  Then  I have  an  m  dot  water, which  I'm  going  to  call  m  dot. That's  S  two,  right? That's  the  entropy  of  the  fluid  stream. And  then  that's  minus  what  enters. So  again,  I  have  an  M  dot  R, and  what's  entering,  state  three,  S  three. And  that's  then  plus  the  Mm  dot  of  water, which  I'm  just  calling  dot. And  that's  S  one,  right? So  what  do  we  know? We  know  the  dots,  right? We  have  both  of  the  dots  which  are  there. We  know  S  two,  and  we  know  S  one  there. And  then  what  we're  looking  for  is  then the  difference  between  or  we're looking  for  S  four  and  S  three. For  that,  what  we  can  do  is  we  can  rearrange. We  can  say  m  dot  with  this, and  then  I  can  have  S  four  minus  S  three. And  then  this  is  then  plus. Let  me  see  here  s4c, is  plus  M  S  two  minus  S  one.  Right? Do  we  have  everything  we  need  or  no? Okay,  we  have  the  bell. So  want  an  answer next  weekend  Monday  to what  you  think  for  that,  okay? I  took  it  this  far. Alright?  Paul,  thank  you  very  much. If  anyone  has  any  questions,  please  come  up. Otherwise, have  yourself  a  good  weekend,  right?
