Of  course.  Log  on  to  your  name. Joe.  Joe.  Nice  to  meet  you,  Joe. Yes.  Here's  Smart  guy. No,  no,  it's  not  next  week. So  basically,  we're  targeting  if  you  look  at the  syllabus  blow the  syllabus  slides  are  schedule. So  it's  in  October  and  all  of  that. Right  now,  I  have  my  colleagues  at  the  CBTF, for  working  out  the  details  of  the  dates. Yeah.  But  it's  not  next  week.  Yeah.  No,  no. Thank  you  for  doing  it,  but  it  could  be  that they're  making  changes  and  organizing  it, and  then  that's  why  it's  displaying. But  please  Don't  freak  out.  Okay.  Thank  you. All  right.  I  got  310. So  let's  get  started. So  today,  we're  talking  about energy  analysis  of  closed  systems. Before  I  get  into  it,  I  want  to make  one  comment  there  that we've  now  incorporated  the  Python. So  Jupiter  Notebook  steam tables  into  one  of the  problems  in  Homework  three, be  greatly  appreciated  if  some  of  you could  go  in  and  basically  try to  solve  with  this  simple  problem  and check  if  this  is working  there  I  worked  for  me  yesterday. I  checked  in.  With  it. If  you  launch  it, this  is  basically  what  it  looks  like. So  if  you  click  on  that  link,  it'll  open  up this  workspace  with  the  work  space, you  click  on  that  Jupiter and  po  called  Workbook, and  then  it  should  show  you  the  calculator. Obviously,  going  and  change the  values  as  you  see  fit. But  yeah,  and  then  let  me  know, maybe  a  next  lecture  how  that went  if  it  worked  for  you, for  example,  after  Cals  Big win  tomorrow,  at  Home. All  right.  Major  learning  objective. I'm  not  going  to  go  through  it. Today,  we're  going  to talk  about  boundary  work. So  let's  say  useful  work  there  in  engines. Be  able  to  state  this  statement about  the  first  law  and  then, you  know,  develop  a  sort  of a  general  energy  balance  for  closed  systems. We  already  started  this  last  week there.  Wrong  place. You  could  join.  So  who  cares  part  of  it? So  the  point  is  that  the  applications of  this  type  of  boundary  work, there  in  this  analysis  of the  control  volumes  is  more  or less  how  we've  done  like, all  work  for  the  past  several  centuries. So  here  you  see  an  internal,  you  know, how  an  internal  basically combustion  engine  is  operating, and  then  here  with  a  similar  example, but  for  a  compressor  compressor  device.  So Last  year,  remember  when  I  played  this, like,  the  sound  was  on,  and  the  place, like,  shook  like  it  was  an  Oppenheimer, you  know,  film  there. I  muted  it  this  time,  although we  could  have  fun  and  see,  is  it? H,  no,  it's  only  here. Okay,  that's  not  that  fun. Anyways,  you  can  look through  and  see  with  this, but  in  short,  it  really  involves very  simple  stuff,  right? Expand,  contract,  expand,  contract  there. So  what  do  these  elements  look  like,  right? So  this  is  again, you  know,  here's  like  your  piston, the  piston  had  the  rod  With  it. In  general,  for  the  systems  that  I  just showed  you  before,  right? These  things  are  moving  pretty  quickly. These  are  not  processes  that  are really  in  equilibrium,  right? U  And  because  of  that  reason,  you  know, all  of  the  sort  of  assumptions that  we  make  at  equilibrium, things  move  a  bit  slow,  you  know, quasi  static  and  all of  that  don't  really  apply. Nevertheless,  it's  still  instructive. Why?  Because  those  types of  assumptions  kind  of  tell  you  what are  the  upper  theoretical  limits  of performance  and  efficiency  there. So  first,  we  start  off  with  this because  because  we  can, and  it's  simple  enough, and  ultimately  that  ranks  on  the best  that  performance  can  be. Of  course,  we've  already  done  this  before, but  just  to  remind  you,  you  know, when  we're  dealing  with  these  forces, we  have  force  across  an  area. Here  is  a  result  of  pressure. Usually,  you  know,  in  sort  of  old  school, classical  internal  combustion  engine,  right. This  is  a  reaction. Things  are  going  to  get  hot. You're  gonna  get  high  pressure, and  that's  ultimately  going  to  be  what drives  the  displacement  here,  DS, that  DS  with  the  cross  sectional  area, what  gives  you  the  DV  there,  right? And  so  that  PDV  for  these  systems  is exactly  what  your  work is  what  your  work  is  going  to  be. Um  You  know, to  be  able  to  get  from  the  P, you  know,  and  again, to  remind  you  that  when  we're dealing  with  these  work  transfer  processes, you  know,  we're  dealing  with  the  Delta because  this  is  an  inexact  differential. Why  is  it  in  exact? Because  to  integrate  that, you  have  to  have  knowledge  about the  relationship  between the  pressure  and  the  volume at  each  stage  of  the  integration,  right? Because  the  pressure  could  be  a  function the  pressure  is  a  function  of  the  volume  and you  need  to  know  that every  step  of  the  way  to  get an  accurate  determination  of the  actual  boundary  work  that's,  It's  done. I'm  writing  here  with  the  Little  B. So  the  Little  B  for  these  slides  here refers  to  the  boundary  work,  right? And  if  you've  done  the  reading, there  are  other  types  of  work. What's  another  example  of work  work  transfer  process? Crickets. So  what's  the  heat  transfer  process? So,  right,  heat  transfer  process is  when  you  have a  temperature  gradient  right  there, and  then  and  then  heat  is  transferred  in, that's  one  way  we  can  transfer energy  into  a  control  volume,  alright? This  is  another  example of  a  work  transfer  process. Here, there's  no  temperature  gradients  involved. I  have  a  voltage  source.  I  have  a  resistor. I  apply  a  voltage  across  that  resistor. I'm  going  to  get heat  generation,  joule  heating, as  we  call  it,  and that's  going  to  be an  energy  transfer  process. Right?  That's  an  example  of a  work  transfer  process that  is  not  boundary  work,  right? It's  not  this  displacement. That's  an  example. Right?  So  Little  B  here refers  to  the  boundary  work,  the  useful  work. There  are  other  ones  that  we've  used in  class  we  Shaft. Right?  Shaft  work  was  another  one  that we  talked  about  there. But  anyway,  the  name  of  the  game  with  all  of this  for  these  types  of  engines and  systems  is  you  need  to  know the  relationship  between  P  and V  such  that  you  can  integrate  and actually  get  the  work  the  work  out,  right? So  a  lot  of times  these  relations  come  in  the  form  of PV  to  some  exponent  equals  a  constant. The  word  for  this  is  polytropic, polytropic  you  know  polytropic  process. If  you  think  this  PV  looks awfully  similar  to  another formula  we've  already  talked  about, the  ideal  gas,  you'd  be  right. If  you  thought  about the  ideal  gas  and  you  said,  Okay, I  have  an  isothermal  process there  with  the  ideal  gas, the  relationship  would  be  PV where  n  equals  to  one,  right? PV  equals  to  a  constant, right?  That's  one  example. But  there's  other  ones that  we'll  explore  where  we have  different  values  to  the  exponent,  right? So,  in  general,  what you'll  know  usually  is  p1v1, as  an  engineer,  you probably  would  know  V  two,  right? If  you're  designing  an  engine, you  might  know  what  V two  is,  and  then  therefore, with  such  a  relation,  you  could  determine what  the  P  two  is. You  know,  at  the  risk  of being  you  know,  way  too  complete  with  it. What  does  that  look  like  then  as  the  process. So  here  you  have  your  piste  and the  displacement  with some  DV,  you  know,  there, then  that  portion  of  the  change  in  volume, then  the  work  corresponds  to  that  sliver  of the  area  that's  underneath,  right? Now  that  I've  woken  you  all  up  with that  very  inspiring  example, let's  work  on  this. So  here  what  I'm  showing  you  is  a  plot  of  PV for  three  different  processes,  ABC. And  the  point  is  that  they  both  start. All  three  of  them  start  and  finish  at exactly  the  same  location. Bear  with  me  for  a  second while  I  launch  the  poll. I  three  questions  I  want  you to  answer  in  your  groups. The  first  is,  which  process  transfers a  higher  magnitude  of work?  The  second  question. If  all  of  these  things  were done  in  quasa  equilibrium, and  isothermal,  which  one  most  closely resembles  the  ideal  gas? And  then  the  third  one,  I  want  you to  substitute  some  numbers. So  building  on  0.2,  substitute some  numbers  and  actually  tell me  how  much  work  that  you  did,  okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  this  activity? So  I  believe  I've  given  you all  the  material  to  be  able  to  do  that. There,  I'll  circulate  around  the  room. So  let's  get  started.  A  5  minutes. Does  it  open  or  no.  I  put  my  name  in. How  does  the  participation sorry  I  was  going  to  look  it  up. No,  go  ahead  Go  ahead.  The  point  is  that, you  put  your  names  and  stuff. You  can,  you  know,  list  each  members of  your  group  with  it. Yeah.  No,  I  don't  grade  this. But  you  can  imagine that  if  I  see  your  name  a  lot, that's  kind  of  nice.  Cool. Sorry. Yes.  Yeah.  Okay.  Pardon  me  for  a  second. Is  it  work  now?  Can  you  check? Thank  you.  Sorry  for that.  I  should  work  now. Oh,  yeah.  Okay,  cool. Okay. Questions?  Is  it  okay? Back  here?  Name  of  the  team. This  is  a  good.  The  ahead. Are  we  doing  over  here,  okay? Yeah.  I  mean,  we  answer  the. Okay.  That's  good.  It's  good  to  start  there. Okay.  All  good. Working  out  everything.  All  right. That's  going  to  ten  0.1. Is  it  okay?  Is  that  clear? No.  Okay.  Wonderful.  You  best. All  good.  All  good. Yeah.  Okay. NRT. We  such  as,  you  have  NRT,  right? So  what  might  be something  you  could  do  for  NRT? Sorry. Slide  PDV. So  let  me  say  it  this  way. So  you  know  the  initial  states, and  you  know  the  final  Well, you  know  the  initial  state  and  you  know the  volume  of  the  final  state. And  you  know  that  it follows  the  ideal  gas  law,  right? So  in  principle,  yes, you  would  be  able  to  know  the  final. My  First  concept. So  this  is  usually what  you  would  do  first  if  you thought  about  it  for  a  minute. The  problem  is  that does  that  have  the  knowledge  about the  whole  process  of  going  from  P  to  V? If  you  do  that  integration? You  know  what  V  is  or  what P  is  at  every  stage along  the  V  in  the  transformation. Okay.  I  have  5  minutes  there. So  maybe  if  you  have  an  answer  submitted, and  then  we  can  start  to  discuss. I'll  wait  till  a  few  more  surveys, maybe  15,  and  then  we  can  get  started. Okay.  So  for  the  first  question, which  process  transfer  is a  higher  magnitude  of  work? I  don't  know  in  all  my  e  of  teaching, if  I've  ever  seen  consensus  with 100%  on  anything  to  a  class. So  I  guess  I  can  ask  any  of  you. So,  for  any  group  that  answered  here, why  did  you  select  A  as  100? Why  did  you  select  A? I  know  y  as  100.  Yes,  p. Great.  And  your  name? Eddie,  Thank  you,  Eddie. Add  the  Grades.  Over  here. Similar  answer  or  something  different. Similar.  Okay.  Yes,  I  would  also  agree. So  you  had  the  e  the  largest area  under  the  curve, in  spite  of  the  fact  that you  started  from  the  same  initial  and ended  at  at  the  same  final  state,  right? Oh,  that's  a. We  look  at  the  election  commission for  that  one,  right? Okay.  But  that's  important,  right? So  the  fact  that  they  started and  finished  at  the  same  place, you  were  able  to  infer  that  one  of  them  had a  different  amount  of work  transfer  from  it,  right? What  I  want  you  to  keep in  mind  with  that  statement, coming  to  the  next  part  is to  keep  in  mind  a  formula  like  this. Okay.  Keep  that  in  mind when  we  talk  about  same  initial, same  final,  but  the  fact  that  you can  have  different  work.  Second  question. If  all  processes  were  done in  quasi  equilibrium, and  isothermally,  which  one  most closely  resembles  the  expansion of  an  ideal  gas? So  we  have  A  B  and C.  So  if  there  was some  a  group  in the  room  here  that  selected  A, maybe  give  us  if  you'd  care  to share  your  feedback  on  why  you  selected  that. One  Mississippi  two  How  about  B? And  just  to  remind  you  there, the  three  or  kind of  like  this  and  this  with  this  being  A, this  being  B,  and  this  being  C?  Yes,  please. Yeah.  Yeah. So  nothing  exponential,  you're  looking at  sort  of  a  linear  monotonic, maybe  monotonic  relationship  is what  I  would  say.  Okay.  And  how  about  C? I  c  Yeah. Yes.  So  there  it's  going  to  be  So  if it's  X  if  y  is  equal  to  one  over  x, then  you'll  have  some  version  of  that,  right? Yeah.  So  I  think  both  I  think  this  is, of  course,  exactly  correct. I  think  the  thinking about  this  type  of  a  trend, though,  I  could  also  accept, because  in  some  regions  here, especially  for  small  changes  in  X, those  things  might  look linear  as  the  change  goes. But  just  to  be  clear,  the  answer  from  X, there  was  absolutely  correct. Okay. Are  there  any  other  comments  about  that  one? No.  Okay.  Now  for the  fun  one.  This  is  awesome. Okay.  So,  an  ideal  gas  expands isothermally,  displacing  a  piston. So  if  you're  given this  v  initial,  the  P  initial, the  T,  T  one  is  T  two  here, and  the  V  V  is  that. Then  what  is  going  to  be the  work  transferred  there? A  right. So  we  have  five,  ten,  15. This  is  like,  some  kind  of  a  bimodal  bimodal with  a  nice  outlier, a  brave  soul  at  40  45. I  like  brave  people.  So,  how  about  this? I'm  not  going  to  pick  on  an  answer, but  I'm  curious  to  hear  on the  thinking  of  the  solution. Is  there  anyone  from  a  group  that's willing  to  share  their  thought  process? Yes,  please.  Iden. So  we  started  off  with  two  PV  NRT  equations. P  two.  Two  integral 225.  Can  I  stop  you  there? What  did  you  put  what  did you  substitute  for  the  P  then? If  you're  integrating  25? Okay.  25.  Okay.  Okay.  All  right. Another  group.  Yes,  please. Two. Like  this.  Okay.  Yes,  please. Me.  Okay,  now  we're  here. Maybe  I'll  draw  into  this  side. So  instead  of  this, you're  writing  from  V  one to  V  two  of.  Say  it  again. V  over  V  DV. And  then  when  you  integrate  that,  you  have. Talk  to  me  then  about  the  integration. How  do  you  execute  that? So  you  can  take  NRT  out constant  over  that  becomes  the natural  0.4  by theater 13,000  kilojules? 13.8  13.8  kilojules. And  I  guess  my  one  question before  I  proceed  to  another  is  that, how  did  you  deal  with  the  NRT? Well,  we  have  the  sf  R  and  T  R  was  given. We  have  the  sling We  were  given  the  original  V one  and  V  two  sf  like  this. Maybe  I'll  put  it  to  here  for  when  we  show the  video  online  with  that. So  we  have  the  R  known, This  then  comes  down  into  the  n.  You know  the  R.  And  then my  question  to  you  is  what  value of  t  do  you  use for  I  guess  at  what  state, though,  is  this,  at  what  point  in the  state  do  you  select  for  the  t? Oh.  Beautiful.  Okay.  All  right. Anyone  else  care  to  share? Does  anyone  want  to  challenge  it? Does  anyone  have  a  question, a  clarification?  Okay. So  with  13  and  rounding, then  that  would  put  us  up  to  15 to  15  kilojules  there. Are  we  sure  of the  37%  they  don't  want  to  challenge? You're  like,  in  European  politics, this  is  the  majority. I  mean,  you  can  form  the  coalition around  that,  okay? Should  I  go  on  and  then  do  my  version? Is  that  okay?  Alright. So  I  don't  disagree  with  this. I  think  that  this  is  right. I  have  13.9  kilo  rules, but  I  probably  round  it  a  bit  with  mine. The  key  insight,  as  I  said  before, one  common  thing  that  happens every  time  you  look  at it  is  when  you  do  work, you  might  think,  Hey,  PDV. So  it's  just  pressure. Then  the  second  volume minus  the  first  one,  right? It's  simple,  right? It  makes  sense.  It's  wrong,  right? Because  you  know,  you need  to  know  the  details about  the  integration  there. This  would  be  like  a  simplified  form of  integration,  right?  That's  one. The  second  one  which  was interesting  and  was  getting more  on  a  correct  direction is  to  think  about  the  trapezoid. That's  right?  That's  a  more  correct  version of  the  integral  under  the  curve,  right? So  we're  getting  into  rem.  It's  like a  reman  approach  to  work. And  then  the  final  one that  we  had  gotten  to  was the  exact  solution  or relationship  between  volume  and  pressure. Right  during  the  process.  And  that's  key. If  you  want  it  to  be  exactly,  you need  to  know  that  relationship, such  that  you  get  an  accurate area  under  that  curve. A  key  insight  into  being  able to  and  that  was  the  ideal  gas  law. L,  you're  able  to know  that  relationship  between P  and  V  because you  have  the  equation  of  state. You  have  that  ideal  gas  law, and  so  you  can  relate  changes  in  pressure to  volume  moles  and  temperature, with  the  temperature  being  constant, with  the  mass  inside  of  there  also being  implicitly  in  that  problem  constant. And  with  the  ideal  gas  constant  constant, all  of  that  stuff  comes  out  of out  of  the  integral,  and  you  can  do  it. And  then  the  other  part  is  that to  be  able  to  get  what  I  would  call this  kind  of  a  constant  pre  factor, the  NRT,  correct. You  have  to  recognize  that  you  know, you  don't  know  the  N,  but  you  do know  that  PV  equals  NRT. So  you  could  go  in  then  and also  just  substitute  directly  and  with  that. I  think  one  of  the  group  members  that  I had  heard  back  there was  thinking  in  that  way, or  of  course,  you  can  go  the way  that  your  name. Austin.  The  way  that  Austin had  had  done  it  there,  okay? And  the  units  are  good.  Are  there any  questions?  Yes,  please. Proportion What  will  happen if  you  take  the  integral  of  the, you  know,  DV  over  Vs, you're  going  to  end  up  with a  non  dimensional  term,  right? You're  gonna  end  up  with  the  natural  log  of a  ratio  of  variables. So  you're  just  going  to  have  a  number. It's  not  going  to  be  a  number  that's  like in  joules,  like  we  needed  to  be,  right? This  needs  to  be  in  work  here,  right? We  want  that  to  be  in  work. And  so  if  you  were  to  get  rid of  the  amount  of mass  that's  in  the  system  or  the  temperature, the  ideal  gas  constant, with  that,  then  you're  ultimately, you'll  have  a  number. It  will  tell  you,  you  know,  a  trend, but  it's  not  going  to  give  you, you  know,  the  energy  you  need. And  there  are no  dumb  questions  in  this  class. Alright.  There  are  silly  questions. I  like  crazy  questions. Alright?  Other  questions? Yeah.  Okay.  So  that'll  make  sense. Like  I  said,  I  want  to  drive  home  this point  about  the,  you  know, avoiding  just  this  kind  of simple  substitution  like  this  here,  right? You  need  to  have  that  knowledge  in  order  to integrate  with  it,  right?  Cool. Well  done.  Well  done.  All  right. I'm  going  to  close  that.  Say  that  again? When  do  you  think  it's  safe  to  use? So  if  I  write  the  If I'd  say  that  work  is  equal  to  p  d  V  here. When  do  you  expect  that  it would  be  valid  to  write that  WB  is  equal  to  P  V  two  minus  V  one. Let  me  take  that  out.  P  equals  a  constant, we're  integrating  P  dv  V  one, V  two,  that's  going  to  be  equal to  V  two  minus  V  one? W.  Good  question. Other  questions.  All  right. Okay,  then  that  was  the  process  for  you  know, for  a  work  transfer  out. When  I  showed  you the  reciprocating  engine  reciprocating, right? It  means  that  we're  like, You  know,  going  round  and  round, we're  compressing,  we're  expanding compressing,  expanding. So  if  this  is  the  right the  expansion  process  here  of  A, this  is  then  going  to be  the  compression  process here  in  B,  right? And  the  key  to  getting a  work  transfer  process out  for  such  an  arrangement is  that  the  work  that  you  get  out, right,  should  be  greater  than what  you  put  in,  right? So  the  network  out  then  is  going  to  be the  difference  between  the  areas under  those  curves,  right? And  we'll  spend  a  lot  more  time  with  this because  how  does  one  go  you  know, cyclically  actually  get  to  this,  right? So  how  does  one  you  know, how  does  one  able  to  actually  run, you  know,  a  process  like  that? It's  going  to  involve  heat  additions  in, actually  taking  heat  out, and  we're  going  to  introduce some  really  weird  terms like  entropy  and  stuff later  to  understand  better,  right? So  That's  the  first  part. I  think  with  this,  I'm  pretty confident  that  you  all,  you  know, at  least  on  a  good  way  with the  PVD  work  and  its  application  there, right  now,  I  want  to  get  into the  first  law  a  bit  more,  right? So  we  said  this  before, you  know,  when  we're  looking at  a  control  volume. Alright?  You  know,  and  we  want to  analyze  you  know, the  control  volume  within  a  system. You  know, the  first  formula  that  we're  going  to write  is  how  during  a  process, the  energy  within  this  system. Alright,  so  Delta  E,  you  know,  system, is  equal  to  the  energy  coming  in, minus  the  energy,  you  know,  coming  out. And  the  way  that  things  can  come  in, this  can  be  work, heat,  when  it's  a  closed  system, when  it's  open,  when  it's  an  open  system. Then  we  can  also  have mass  that's  coming  in  and  out. And  the  way  that energy  within  here  can  change, change  the  kinetic  energy, could  be  a  change  in potential  energy,  internal  energy, so  like  temperature  is  what  can  happen. Again, when  we're  talking  about  a  closed  system, we're  only  talking  about work  and  heat,  right? And  in  this  notation  here, right  when  I  write  the  generalized  form, I've  already  assigned  when  I  write ins  and  outs  for  out. I've  already  accounted  for  the fact  that  I'm  subtracting. So  here  I  have  Q  in,  I  have WN  and  then  I'm  subtracting  out  Q  and W.  And  then  this  is  then  the  change  in internal  kinetic  and  potential  energy within  my  system,  okay? You  could  also  go  and  write  Q  net  in. So  the  net  is  going  to  be QN  minus  Q,  is  Q  Net  in. And  then  WNT  N  would  be  WN  minus W  O  there  would  be  then  the  net  values. I  think  it  burned  out.  Okay. No  more  energy  out.  Alright. Some  dad  jokes  on  Friday.  All  right. As  we  just  did  in  this  example, and  hopefully,  you  know, drove  home  for  you,  you  know, boundary  work  is  very important.  You  know,  this  expansion. This  allows  you  to  move  things. And  again,  you  know, from  states  one  to  two  during that  boundary  work  process  is  PD  V  there. The  great  question  from  Max,  right? With  Max  was  that  if  it's run  at  constant  pressure, you  know,  then  in  that  case, then  it's  P  times  V  two minus  V  one  there,  right? Are  other  ways  to  transfer  work,  though, that  I  want  to  call  it  maybe a  bit  less,  you  know, ales  necessarily  less  useful, but  not  in  boundary  work, and  that's  the  example  that  I  showed  you  here with  with  the  joe  heating. So  I  want  to  work  out  this  example  for you  when  we  apply this  energy  analysis  to  control  volume  to this  problem  to  this  problem  here. Before  I  start,  I  want  to  erase  or  maybe  y, I  want  to  erase  this. All  right. That's  my  marker.  Alright. Okay,  so  in  this  problem here  as  we  showed,  we  have  a  piston. Right?  This  parts  movable. We  have  water  that's  in  here. We're  told  that  it's a  saturated  vapor,  right? So  our  quality  is  equal  to  one. We're  told  that  we  have some  heat  flowing  out, 3.7  kilos  that's  transferred  out. We're  told  that  the  mass  is  0.025  kilograms converting  into  into  the  SI  units, and  that  our  initial  and our  final  state  both  have  the  same  pressure, isobaric,  which  is then  0.3  Megapascal,  right? Good.  And  what  we  want  to know  at  the  end  of  this  is  what  is  T  two? So,  what  is  the  temperature  of the  final  state  there,  right? And  what  we're  doing  at  the  same  time, so  why  is  it  the  state changing  in  addition  to the  heat  being  transferred  out? We  also  are  transferring work  in  electrically.  So  we  have  a  current. It's  passing  through  this  resistor at  0.2  amps. The  voltage  that's  being  applied  is  a  nice in  North  American  100  and  120  volts. And  we're  doing  this  over  the  course  of five  5  minutes  there,  right? If  we  write  our  energy  balance, so  our  energy  balance  for a  closed  volume  here, so  we're  not  exchanging  mass. Right?  This  is  going  to  be  our  Q  n plus  W  N  minus  Q  out, so  heat  out  plus  W. And  then  this  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  change  of the  energy  right  within  the  system, which  is  going  to  be  Delta  U, so  the  internal  energy, plus  changes  in  kinetic  energy, and  I'm  going  to  write  Delta  K  E  for  that, so  kinetic  energy is  That's  how  the  book  does  it. So  just  to  be  consistent  and  then  the same  for  potential  energy. Alright.  From  this  problem, there's  no  obvious  heat  being  transferred  in, so  QN  is  out.  Is  there  a  question? Okay. And,  we  don't  have  changes  of kinetic  or  potential  energy  within the  control  volume  there. For  the  work  that's  being  transferred  in, you  wouldn't  know  this  probably  a  priori, but  you  could  hazard  a  guess  that the  work  transferred  in  electrically is  going  to  be  proportional  to  the  voltage times  the  current  times  the  time,  right? You  could  check  that  also  with  the  SI  units of  Amps,  volts  and  seconds. We'll  get  you  we'll  get  you  into  jewels. And  then,  The  workout, we  already  know,  right? We're  given  that  as  where  are  we  given  that? We  are  given  that.  We're  given that  as  3.7  kilo  joules. That's  out.  And  for  the  work  out. So  for  W,  we  can  write  that  W  is  equal  to, the  integral  from  state  one  to  state  two  of P  d  v.  Right? So  this  is  a  constant  pressure  process. So  then  what's  this  going  to  be? It's  going  to  be  our  max  answer, P  V  two  minus  V  one  with  that,  right? Good.  So  I'm  going  step  by step  and  now  we  have  our  energy  equation. We  have  most  of  the  stuff  that  we  need  here. For  Delta  U,  right? Delta  U  is  equal  to, you  know,  this  is  U  two  minus  one, so  that's  the  internal  energy  at  state two  minus  the  internal  energy  at  All  right. Sorry. Let's  go. Let's  go. That  door  is  held  open. I'll  hold  this  door  open.  Go  ahead. Thank  you. Nice  and  orderly. There  we  go.  I  just I  Thank  you. You're  good.  Keep  going. Go  back. I'm  going  to  check. Okay.
