So  today,  we're  talking  about energy  analysis  of  closed  systems. Before  I  get  into  it,  I  want  to make  one  comment  there  that we've  now  incorporated  the  Python, so  Jupiter  notebook  seam tables  into  one  of the  problems  in  Homework  three, be  greatly  appreciated  if  some  of  you could  go  in  and  basically  try to  solve  with  the  simple  problem  and  check if  if  this  is working  there  I  worked  for  me  yesterday. I  checked  in,  with  it. If  you  launch  it, this  is  basically  what  it  looks  like. So  if  you  click  on  that  link, it'll  open  up  this  workspace with  the  work  space, you  click  on  that  Jupiter  and  po  called Workbook  and  then  it  should show  you  the  calculator. Obviously  going  and  change the  values  as  you  see  fit. But  yeah,  and  then  let  me  know, maybe  a  next  lecture  how  that went  if  it  worked  for  you, for  example,  after  Cal's  Big  win  tomorrow, at  Home. Alright.  Major  learning  objective. I'm  not  going  to  go  through  it.  Today,  we're going  to  talk  about  boundary  work. So  let's  say  useful  work  there  in  engines. Be  able  to  state  this statement  about  the  first  law, and  then,  you  know, develop  a  sort  of  a  general energy  balance  for  closed  systems. We  already  started  this  last  week  there. Wrong  place.  You  could  join. Yeah.  So  who  cares  part  of  it? So  the  point  is  that  the  applications of  this  type  of  boundary  work, there  in  this  analysis  of the  controlled  volumes  is  more  or less  how  we've  done  like, all  work  for  the  past  several  centuries. So  here  you  see  an  internal,  you  know, how  an  internal  basically combustion  engine  is  operating, and  then  here  with  a  similar  example, but  for  a  compressor  compressor  device. So  Last  year,  remember  when  I  played  this, like,  the  sound  was  on,  and  the  place,  like, shook  like  it  was  an  Oppenheimer, you  know,  film  there. I  muted  it  this  time,  although we  could  have  fun  and  see,  is  it? H,  no,  it's  only  here. Okay,  that's  not  that  fun. Anyways,  that,  you  can  look through  and  see  with  this, but  in  short,  it  really  involves very  simple  stuff,  right? Expand,  contract,  expand,  contract,  there. So  what  are  these  elements  look  like,  right? So  this  is,  again,  you  know, here's  like  your  piston. The  piston  had  the  rod  With  it. In  general,  for  the  systems  that  I  just showed  you  before,  right? These  things  are  moving  pretty  quickly. These  are  not  processes  that  are really  in  equilibrium,  right? U  And  because  of  that  reason,  you  know, all  of  the  sort  of  assumptions that  we  make  at  equilibrium, things  move  a  bit  slow,  you  know, quasi  static  and  all of  that  don't  really  apply. Nevertheless,  it's  still  instructive. Why?  Because  those  types of  assumptions  kind  of  tell  you  what are  the  upper  theoretical  limits  of performance  and  efficiency  there. So  first,  we  start  off  with  this because  because  we  can, and  it's  simple  enough, and  ultimately  that  ranks  on  the best  that  performance  can  be. Of  course,  we've  already  done  this  before, but  just  to  remind  you,  you  know, when  we're  dealing  with  these  forces, we  have  force  across  an  area. Here  is  a  result  of  pressure. Usually,  you  know,  in  sort  of  old  school, classical  internal  combustion  engine,  right? This  is  a  reaction. Things  are  going  to  get  hot. You're  gonna  get  high  pressure, and  that's  ultimately  going  to  be  what drives  the  displacement  here, DS,  that  DS  with  the  cross  sectional  area, what  gives  you  the  DV  there,  right? And  so  that  PDV  for  these  systems  is exactly  what  your  work is  what  your  work  is  going  to  be. Um  You  know, to  be  able  to  get  from  the  P, you  know,  and  again, to  remind  you  that  when  we're dealing  with  these  work  transfer  processes, you  know,  we're  dealing  with  the  Delta because  this  is  an  inexact  differential. Why  is  it  in  exact? Because  to  integrate  that, you  have  to  have  knowledge  about the  relationship  between the  pressure  and  the  volume at  each  stage  of  the  integration,  right? Because  the  pressure  could  be  a  function or  the  pressure  is  a  function  of  the  volume and  you  need  to  know  that every  step  of  the  way  to  get an  accurate  determination  of the  actual  boundary  work  that's,  It's  done. I'm  writing  here  with  the  Little  B. So  the  Little  B  for  these  slides  here refers  to  the  boundary  work,  right? And  if  you've  done  the  reading, there  are  other  types  of  work. What's  another  example  of work  work  transfer  process? Crickets.  So  what's the  heat  transfer  process? So,  right,  heat  transfer  process is  when  you  have a  temperature  gradient  right  there, and  then  and  then  heat  is  transferred  in, that's  one  way  we  can  transfer energy  into  a  control  volume,  alright? This  is  another  example of  a  work  transfer  process. Here, there's  no  temperature  gradients  involved. I  have  a  voltage  source.  I  have  a  resistor. I  apply  a  voltage  across  that  resistor. I'm  going  to  get heat  generation,  joe  heating, as  we  call  it,  and that's  going  to  be an  energy  transfer  process. Right?  That's  an  example  of a  work  transfer  process that  is  not  boundary  work, right?  It's  not  this  displacement. That's  an  example.  Right? So  Little  B  here  refers  to the  boundary  work,  the  useful  work. There  are  other  ones  that  we've  used  in class  we  Shaft,  right? Shaft  work  was  another  one  that we  talked  about  there. But  anyway,  the  name  of  the  game  with  all  of this  for  these  types  of  engines and  systems  is  you  need  to  know the  relationship  between  P  and V  such  that  you  can  integrate  and actually  get  the  work  the  work  out,  right? So  A  lot  of times  these  relations  come  in  the  form  of PV  to  some  exponent  e  equals  a  constant. The  word  for  this  is  polytropic, polytropic  you  know,  polytropic  process. If  you  think  this  PV,  looks  awfully similar  to  another  formula  we've already  talked  about,  the  ideal  gas. You'd  be  right. If  you  thought  about the  ideal  gas  and  you  said, I  have  an  isothermal  process there  with  the  ideal  gas, the  relationship  would  be  P  V where  n  equals  to  one,  right? PV  equals  to  a  constant, right?  That's  one  example. But  there's  other  ones  that will  explore  where  we  have di  different  values  to  the  exponent,  right? So  In  general,  what you'll  know  usually  is  p1v1, as  an  engineer, you  probably  would  know  V  two. If  you're  designing  an  engine, you  might  know  what  V two  is,  and  then  therefore, with  such  a  relation,  you  could  determine what  the  P  two  is. You  know,  at  the  risk  of being  you  know,  way  too  complete  with  it. What  does  that  look  like  then  as  the  process. So  here  you  have  your  piste  and the  displacement  with some  DV,  you  know,  there, then  that  portion  of  the  change  in  volume, then  the  work  corresponds  to  that  sliver  of the  area  that's  underneath,  right? Now  that  I've  woken  you  all  up  with that  very  inspiring  example, let's  work  on  this. So  here  what  I'm  showing  you  is  a  plot  of  PV for  three  different  processes,  ABC. And  the  point  is  that  they  both  start. All  three  of  them  start  and  finish  at exactly  the  same  location. Bear  with  me  for  a  second  while I  launch  the  poll. I  three  questions  I  want  you to  answer  in  your  groups. The  first  is  which  process  transfers a  higher  magnitude  of work?  The  second  question. If  all  of  these  things  were done  in  quasa  equilibrium, and  isothermal,  which  one  most  closely resembles  the  ideal  gas? And  then  the  third  one,  I  want  you to  substitute  some  numbers. So  building  on  0.2,  substitute some  numbers  and  actually  tell me  how  much  work  that  you  did,  okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  this  activity? So  I  believe  I've  given  you  all the  material  to  be  able  to  do  that. There.  I'll  circulate  around  the  room. Let's  get  started.  About  5  minutes. Okay.  So  that  was  the  process  for, you  know,  for  a  work  transfer  out. When  I  showed  you the  reciprocating  engine  reciprocating, right? It  means  that  we're  like,  you  know, going  round  and  round,  we're  compressing, we're  expanding  compressing,  expanding. So  if  this  is  the  right the  expansion  process  here  of  A, this  is  then  going  to be  the  compression  process here  in  B,  right? And  the  key  to  getting a  work  transfer  process out  for  such  an  arrangement is  that  the  work  that  you  get  out, right,  should  be  greater  than what  you  put  in,  right? So  the  network  out  then  is  going  to  be the  difference  between  the  areas under  those  curves,  right? And  we'll  spend  a  lot  more  time  with this  because  how  does  one  go, you  know,  cyclically  actually get  to  this,  right? So  how  does  one  you  know  how does  one  able  to  actually  run, you  know,  a  process  like  that? It's  going  to  involve  heat  additions  in, actually  taking  heat  out, and  we're  going  to  introduce some  really  weird  terms like  entropy  and  stuff later  to  understand  better,  right? So  That's  the  first  part. I  think  with  this,  I'm  pretty confident  that  you  all,  you  know, at  least  on  a  good  way  with the  PVD  work  and  its  application  there, right  now,  I  want  to  get  into the  first  law  a  bit  more,  right? So  we  said  this  before,  you  know, when  we're  looking  at  a  control  volume. Alright?  You  know,  and  we  want to  analyze  you  know, the  control  volume  within  a  system. You  know, the  first  formula  that  we're  going  to write  is  how  during  a  process, the  energy  within  this  system. Alright,  so  Delta  E,  you  know,  system, is  equal  to  the  energy  coming  in, minus  the  energy,  you  know,  coming  out. And  the  way  that  things  can  come  in, this  can  be  work, heat,  when  it's  a  closed  system, when  it's  open,  when  it's  an  open  system. Then  we  can  also  have mass  that's  coming  in  and  out. And  the  way  that energy  within  here  can  change, change  the  kinetic  energy, could  be  a  change  in potential  energy,  internal  energy, so  like  temperature  is  what  can  happen. Again, when  we're  talking  about  a  closed  system, we're  only  talking  about work  and  heat,  right? And  in  this  notation  here, right,  when  I  write  the  generalized  form, I've  already  assigned  when  I  write  ins and  outs  for  Out, I've  already  accounted  for  the fact  that  I'm  subtracting. So  here  I  have  QN,  I  have WN  and  then  I'm  subtracting  out  Q  and W.  And  then  this  is  then  the  change  in internal  kinetic  and  potential  energy within  my  system,  okay? You  could  also  go  and  write  Q  net  in. So  the  net  is  gonna  be QN  minus  Q  is  Q  Net  in. And  then  WNT  N  would  be  WN  minus W  out  there  would  be  then  the  net  values. I  think  it  burned  out. Okay.  No  more  energy  out. Alright.  Some  dad  jokes  on  Friday.  Mm. Alright,  um,  As  we  just  did  in  this  example, and  hopefully,  you  know, drove  home  for  you,  you  know, boundary  work  is  very  important. You  know,  this  expansion,  this  allows you  to  move  things. And  again,  you  know, from  states  one  to  two  during that  boundary  work  process  is  PD  V  there. The  great  question  from  Max,  right? Wh  Max  was  that  if  it's run  at  constant  pressure, you  know,  then  in  that  case, then  it's  is  P  times  V  two minus  V  one  there,  right? Are  other  ways  to  transfer  work,  though, that  I  want  to  call  it  maybe a  bit  less,  you  know, ale  less  necessarily  less  useful, but  not  in  boundary  work, and  that's  the  example  that  I  showed  you  here with  with  the  joul  heating. So  I  want  to  work  out  this  example  for you  when  we  apply this  energy  analysis  to  control  volume  to this  problem  to  this  problem  here. Before  I  start,  I  want  to erase  or  maybe  I  yeah. I  want  to  erase  this. Alright. That's  my  marker.  Alright. Okay,  so  in  this  problem here  as  we  showed,  we  have  a  piston. Right?  This  part's  movable. We  have  water  that's  in  here. We're  told  that  it's a  saturated  vapor,  right? So  our  quality  is  equal  to  one. We're  told  that  we  have some  heat  flowing  out, 3.7  kilos  that's  transferred  out. We're  told  that  the  mass  is  0.025  kilograms converting  into  into  the  SI  units, and  that  our  initial  and our  final  state  both  have  the  same  pressure, isobaric,  which  is then  0.3  Megapascal,  right? Good.  And  what  we  want  to know  at  the  end  of  this  is  what  is  T  two? So,  what  is  the  temperature  of the  final  state  there,  right? And  what  we're  doing  at  the  same  time, so  why  is  it  the  state changing  in  addition to  the  heat  being  transferred  out? We  also  are  transferring work  in  electrically. So  we  have  a  current.  It's  passing through  this  resistor  at  0.2  amps. The  voltage  that's  being  applied  is  a  nice in  North  American  100  and  120  volts. And  we're  doing  this  over  the  course  of five  5  minutes  there,  right? If  we  write  our  energy  balance, so  our  energy  balance  for a  closed  volume  here, so  we're  not  exchanging  mass.  Right? This  is  going  to  be  our  Q  n plus  W  N  minus  Q  out, so  heat  out  plus  W. And  then  this  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  change  of the  energy  right  within  the  system, which  is  going  to  be  Delta  U of  the  internal  energy, plus  changes  in  kinetic  energy. And  I'm  going  to  write  Delta  KE  for  that, so  kinetic  energy is  that's  how  the  book  does  it. So  just  to  be  consistent  and  then  the same  for  potential  energy. Alright.  From  this  problem, there's  no  obvious  heat  being  transferred  in. So  QN  is  out.  Is  there  a  question? Okay. And,  we  don't  have  changes  of kinetic  or  potential  energy  within the  control  volume  there. For  the  work  that's  being  transferred  in, you  wouldn't  know  this  probably  a  priori, but  you  could  hazard  a  guess  that the  work  transferred  in  electrically is  going  to  be  proportional  to  the  voltage times  the  current  times  the  time,  right? You  could  check  that  also  with  the  SI units  of  amps,  volts, and  seconds  will  get you  we'll  get  you  into  joes. And  then,  The  workout, we  already  know,  right? We're  given  that  as  where are  we  given  that?  We  are  given  that. We're  given  that  as  3.7  kilojoules. That's  out.  And  for  the  work  out. So  for  W,  we  can  write  that  W  is  equal  to, right,  the  integral  from  state one  to  State  two  of P  d  V.  Right? So  this  is  a  constant  pressure  process. So  then  what's  this  going  to  be? It's  going  to  be  our  max  answer, P  V  two  minus  V  one  with  that,  right? Good.  So  I'm  going  step  by step  and  now  we  have  our  energy  equation. We  have  most  of  the  stuff  that  we  need  here. For  Delta  U,  right? Delta  U  is  equal  to, you  know,  this  is  U  two  minus  one, so  that's  the  internal  energy  at  state two  minus  the  internal  energy  at  Alright. Sorry.  Let's  go.
