Alright,  I  got  310.  I'm  gonna  get  started. So  today,  we're  talking about  gas vapor  mixtures  and  air  conditioning. Inspiring.  Today,  we  don't need  air  conditioning.  It's  cold. Actually, you  could  think  about  it  the  other  way. Tday,  we  might  need the  most  air  conditioning because  it's  very  humid. Alright?  So,  yeah, building  off  of  what  we  did before  with  the  gas  mixtures, now  we're  coming  into  some of  the  basically  applications of  that,  which  is  conditioning. Does  anyone  know  why  it's called  conditioning,  by  the  way? Conditioning  air.  Smart. No.  You  know  what  the  conditioned  yarn  is? Yarn.  Anyone  from  North  Carolina here?  No  textiles  people? Yeah. So  basically,  you  would  leave  it  right  in a  room  at  a  specific  humidity, and  you'd  condition  it. And  so  air  conditioning,  you  know, historically  was  about  less about  temperature  and  more  about  humidity. There's  a  whole  long  saga,  right,  you  know, that  involved  this  kind  of  discussion  about, you  know,  what  is  optimal  there? Should  we  keep  it  really  cold? Should  we  basically  make  it,  you  know, sort  of  drier  for  a  time  there? Like  the  movie  theaters? That  was  like  a  gimmick. They  basically  were  like  fighting  and  say, we're  going  to  make  it  as  cold  as  possible, and  that's  gonna  attract  people  to  come  in, you  know,  on  a  hot  on a  hot,  you  know,  day  there. All  right?  So,  anyways, that's  my  old  man's  story  for  you. Okay,  today,  after  you're  done, you're  going  to  be  able  to  do  two  things, actually,  hopefully  more  than  two, but  you're  going  to  determine  the properties  of  humid  air, which  sounds  seemingly  simple, but  you  have  to  remember  that  it's a  mixture  of  a  bunch  of  stuff. So  I'm  going  to  show  you  like, the  old  way  of  doing  it,  and  then I'm  going  to  show  you  a  modern  way. And  the  old  way  of doing  it  is  the  second  one, which  is  called  the  psychometric  chart. Does  anyone  know  a  psychometric  chart  is? Nobody.  Great.  Okay.  So  this is  like  horseshoes  and  hand  grains. There's  like  nothing  in  the  middle. You either  no  S  psychometric  chart  or  you  don't. All  right?  Okay.  So  before  we  get  into  that, I'm  going  to  give  you,  you  know,  some  basics. So  this  is  a  TS  diagram, only  looking  at  water. So  if  you  want  to  look  at  that, you  can  open  up this  script.  There,  right? So  use  your  vapor  dome. And  let's  say  you're  at  a  given  pressure. So  this  one  is,  I  think,  I  don't  know, 25  20  or  25  millibar. I  think  I  picked  for  this. So  comparable  to  the  partial  pressure or  water  vapor  in  this  room. So  that  exists  at  a  temperature. And  if  you  were  to  go  and  cool  from  that  0.1, right?  We're  at  that  temperature. If  you  were  to  cool  along  the  line  of constant  pressure  to  that  temperature  T  two, we  would  call  this  the  Du  point,  right? So  you've  probably  never  seen  it  like  that. Maybe  I  don't  know  if  any  of you  watch  the  news,  right? I  used  to  watch  the  weather,  you  know, a  lot  of  weather  channel  stuff. So  there  you  talked  about  the  DPoint or  it's  a  common  thing  that's  like reported  with  it,  okay? So  you  have  DPoint, right?  That's  the  definition of  your  D  point,  right? There's  a  second  temperature, and  we'll  get  into  this  because  it relates  to  the  psychometric  chart, which  is  imagine  that  you  were. And  this  is  kind  of  weird, but  I'll  get  to  what  it  means. But  imagine  you  were  to  have  a  device where  It's  insulated  on all  sides  or  on  the  top, and  let's  say  on  the  bottom  here. And  let's  say  you  blew  air  in, and  you  had  air  come  out. And  let's  say  within  there, you  also  had  like  a  bath  of  water,  right? And  this  water  right had  of  free  interface  with  that. And  let's  say  if  for  some  reason, maybe  the  air  is  under  saturated, you  could  replace  that  water  by  pumping in  some  water  in. There,  right?  And  we  could talk  about  this  state  as  being  state  one. And  we  could  talk  about  this  being  as state  as  being  state  two  there. And  so  this  adiabatic  saturation  temperature, you  know,  if  you  did  this  experiment, let's  say  you're  entering  in  with some  humidity  and  some  temperature, and  it  comes  in, you're  going  to  come  out  at  some  temperature here,  T  two,  right? And  that  temperature  T  two  is  called the  adiabatic  saturation  temperature,  right. It's  more  commonly  referred  to. As  an  approximation. It's  commonly  referred  to  also  as the  wet  bulb  temperature,  right? And  so  the  web  temperature,  you  know, if  you  didn't  want  to  build  a device  that  looks  like  this, what  you  could  do  is you  could  take  a  thermometer. Alright? You  could  measure  the  normal temperature  that's  there, and  you  could  take another  thermometer  and  you could  stick  it  in  a  bunch  of cotton  and  soak  it  in  water. You  basically  soak  this  thing  in  water. If  the  humidity  in  the  room is  less  than  100%, you  can  expect  some  evaporation to  occur  from  that. The  temperature  and  here is  therefore  going  to be  less  than  the  original  one, like  the  normal  one  that  we  measure. The  key,  really  the  key  to analyzing  these  mixtures  is not  to  have  two  pieces of  information,  but  three. And  most  commonly, what  you'll  have  is  this  first  one. Right  here,  the  temperature  of  the  room. The  second  one  that  you'll  kind  of  know  by default  is the  pressure,  you  know,  the  pressure, the  total  pressure  in  the  room P.  And  then the  other  one  that  you  will  know  is you  will  either  know  what  we  call  is the  relative  humidity  P.  So relative  humidity  should  be something  that  you  have pre  existing  knowledge  of? Yes. This  is  another  one that  you  know  or  you  don't. Another  one  that  you  might  have  heard of  is  not  relative  humidity,  but  absolute. You  know,  humidity  is  another  one. And  the  final  one  that  you  could  know  to  have complete  information  would  be this  T  wet  bulb. So  like  I  said,  pressure  you  usually  have, the  temperature  you  usually  have. And  then  one  of  these three  things  you  would  have, and  then  you  have  complete  information. All  right? A,  you  know,  the  hop,  you  know, the  temperatures,  and  so  on  and so  forth.  Air.  Alright? So  let's  go  through  that.  I'll  give  you  now some  more  precise  definitions about  some  of  these  terms, but  I  just  want  to orient  you  that  the  name  of the  game  in  analyzing humid  air  is  that  it's  not just  these  two  properties,  right? Because  it's  a  mixture. We  probably,  you  know, you  would  suspect  that you  need  more  information, and  as  I  said,  pressure,  temperature, and  then  basically  one  of  these  three  things, and  you're  good  to  go. Alright. Then  I'll  show  you  the  old  school  way of  determining  that and  then  the  new  school  with  it. This  is  the  wrong  sheet? I  also  vote  school  today  because 'cause  I  don't  know  where  my  iPad  is, so  that'll  be  a  fun  trip  poll. So.  Okay. Good.  So  if  we  talk  about  air,  right? So  it's  a  mixture. And  I  know  I  told  you  before  that,  you  know, when  we're  dealing  with  ideal  mixtures, we're  going  to  say  that  the  total  pressure, which  I'm  going  to  notice,  P,  right, could  be  equal  to the  contributions  of  ideal  gas, one  partial  pressure,  plus,  let's  say, ideal  gas,  two  partial  pressure, and  so  on  and  so  forth,  right? And  air,  we've  always  treated as  an  ideal  gas,  right? So  we've  always  treated  air  as an  ideal  gas,  and  it  was  fine. And  what  I'm  going to  do  right  now  amounts  to  heresy, according  to  what  I  told  you  before, which  is  that  in  analyzing  humid  air  is common  practice  to  treat the  vapor  component  of air  as  an  ideal  gas,  right? So  the  one  time  you  get  to  do  it  is  here, you  get  to  cheat  and  do  this. There  are  limits  to  it. You  can't  get  to  very  high  partial  pressures. The  book  gives  you  sort  of  values,  bless  you. But  for  the  most  part,  for  the  things we're  going  to  talk  about,  this  is  a  safe. This  is  a  safe  thing  to  do. So  the  total  pressure  is equal  to  the  partial  pressure  of air  plus  the  partial  pressure  of  vapor, where  ideal  gas  is  always  pretty  much an  ideal  gas  in  the  vapor  in  this  case. It  works.  The  critical  value for  it.  I  have  it  down  here. Actually,  I  did  write  it  down, is  that  this  works  when the  partial  pressure  is  less than  12.3  KPA,  right? To  think  about  the  air,  the  air  is like  So  air  is  1  bar,  right? So  you  have  something  that's  like,  you  know, 1  bar,  you  know,  level,  so  most  of  it's  air. But  if  you  keep  the  partial  pressure of  water  vapor  less  than  that, the  error  is  going  to  be  0.2%, which  I  can  tell  you  for  most  engineering, if  you're  less  than  0.2%, you're  doing  pretty  darn  pretty  darn  good. Alright?  Good.  So  that's the  first  thing  that's  out  of  the  way. The  second  thing  is  we  can  come to  our  definition of  of  the  absolute  humidity  to  the  Omega. So  absolute  H  umidity. This  is  like  Omega, which  is  equal  to  the  ratio  or  is  defined. Let's  say  it's  defined  as  the  ratio  of the  mass  of  water  vapor  in  the  air, divided  by  the  mass  of  air. Alright? Is  essentially  it's  dimensionless,  right? And  it's  the  ratio  of the  water  mass  water  content, divided  by  the  air  content.  Alright? Good.  The  second  definition  then, which  is  the  Phi or  the  f  there  is  what  we  call, and  this  is  what  you probably  have  heard  more  of  is the  relative  relative  humidity. All  right.  And  the  relative  humidity  as  P. Sometimes  it's  also  written  as  RH. You'll  see  a  lot  of  times  people write  it  as  RH. This  is  defined  as the  partial  pressure  of  water  vapor,  right? So  that  the  PV  divided by  the  saturation  vapor  pressure,  right? Okay.  So  what  does  this  mean? It's  like  you  take  the  room. And  you  would  say,  Okay, this  room  is  at  some  temperature. How  much  water  vapor could  it  hold  at  that  temperature,  right? And  if  that  pressure,  right? If  the  actual  partial  pressure is  less  than  the  content that  it  can  hold,  it's  going  to  be? This  is  going  to  be  less  than  or  equal to  one,  right  or  100%. So  it's  either  written  as  like one  or  or  100%  like  that. Okay.  Um  Yeah, the  final  thing  I  want to  say  before  we  then  get into  some  of  the  charts  and the  analysis  is  that  the  enthalpy. So  if  we're  talking  about, you  know,  in  air  conditioning, a  lot  of  times  you're  dealing  with let's  say  I  want  to  cool  the  air  to  take  out, maybe  some  water  content, and  then  I  want  to  introduce some  heat  again  in order  to  go  from  a  humidity  of  100%, maybe  to  like  50%. And  it's  a  steady  flow  device. You  can  anticipate  that  you're  going to  be  interested  in  enthalpies,  right? So  the  enthalp  then  here,  the  total  enthalpy of  the  mixture  is  going  to  be  additive. So  you're  going  to  be  the  enthalpy  from  air plus  the  enthalp  your  vapor. All  right.  Okay.  So  let  me  really  quick. We  can  go  to  full  screen  here. But,  yeah,  so  what  we've  right, we  defined  total  pressure. We've  talked  about  this  temperature  here. We  talked  about  wet  bulb  temperature. I've  now  defined  absolute  humidity. I've  defined  relative  humidity. Something  that  you'll  see,  Again, this  is  then  in the  context  of  when  you're  doing an  air  conditioning  analysis is  that  this  T,  you  know, when  it's  just  measured  in  air, this  is  sometimes  called the  dry  bulb  temperature, right,  which  would  make  sense if  this  is  like  wet  bulb,  right? It's  saturated.  In  this  case, the  normal  temperature  is  then, sometimes  called  dry  bulb,  right? It's  a  big  community. There's  lots  of  different  terms, so  I'm  just  trying  to  help  you  out  with  that. Okay,  so  what  does  it  look  like  when you  try  to  do an  old  school  analysis  of  all  this. So  anyone  know  what  that  is? A  psychrometric  chart,  right? So  So  this  is  old  school. So  when  I  was  a  student,  you  know,  then. This  is  what  you  have.  It  also  exists in  your  book.  I  wrote  this  one. If  you  want  to  go  in  and tweak  and  mess  around, you  can  launch  that  script  and  and look  at  the  Jupiter  notebook and  how  it's  analyzed. First  thing  is  to  start  with  the  axes,  right? So  the  horizontal  axis  here  is  this  dry  bl, essentially  the  temperature  of  your  air. And  the  vertical  axis  is  then the  absolute  humidity,  right? So  the  ratio  of  the  mass  of  water  vapor  in the  air  divided  by  the  mass of  the  dry  air  there.  Step  one. Step  two,  you  can  look  at your  line  of  constant  values. So  the  first  one's  in  blue, that's  your  relative  humidity,  right? So  you  have  your  relative  humidity, starting  at  100  806-040-2010. Good.  The  last  thing  that  I  added  to  this, most  of  them  have  more  than  this. This  is  like  lean,  right? The  other  ones  have  enthalpies and  all  sorts  of  other  stuff. The  other  one  that  I  have on  here  is  then  your  wet, the  wet  pulp  temperatures with  this  that  move  on  up,  right? So  I'm  showing  you  this  in  the  event that  in  the  future,  I  don't  know. Yeah.  You  just  need  to  know  it? That  this  exists,  and  that  you can  analyze  with  it if  you  wanted  to  take  the  time  to  do  it. The  point  is  that  on  this,  again, if  I  have  you  know, two  or  three  pieces  of  information  with  this, you  should  be  able  to  put  yourself  on the  map  with it,  the  one  piece  of  information. What's  the  one  piece  of  information  that  you think  is  implicit  with  this  plot? But  you  don't  see  that I've  already  told  you  that  you  need. Pressure.  Yes. Pressure,  right?  So  pressure  is  not  in  here, so  that's  already  defined  in order  to  place  yourself,  then  on  the  regime, you  need  at  least  two of  those  other  pieces  of  information. So  the  absolute  to the  temperature,  the  weapon. And  as  I  said,  the  most  commonly  ways. Of  doing  this  would  be  essentially the  temperature  and  the  web  temperature. Although  nowadays, what  you'll  see  a  lot  more  of are  like  the  digital  sensors. You  have  these  like  digital  sensors there  and  with  that, it's  most  common  to  read  out  temperature and  saturation  temperature  at temperature  and  relative  humidity. Right?  Essentially  the  relative  humidity, knowing  the  pressure  of  the  room, and  then  knowing  the  temperature  of  the  room, you  would  be  able  to place  yourself  on  this  map. And  once  you  can  do  that,  you have  complete  information,  right? You  have  the  enthalpies,  and  so  on and  so  forth  with  it. All  right?  That's  good.  Am  I  missing? If  I  may,  I  can  take  a  brief  detour to  show  you  then sort  of  a  a  bit  of  a  modern  one, and  then  I  can  get  into  the  derivation of  our  atiobatic  system  and then  if  time  into  the  cooling  tower  or  we  can pick  that  up  next  time. But  just  really  quickly  to  show  you. As  you  can  expect,  the  point  is  that since  Since  this  is  a  mixture  of  things, you  might  anticipate  that and  if  you  wanted  to  do  this  electronically, this  might  be  a little  more  sophisticated  than something  like  the  cool prop  that  I've  taught  you. So  some  very  smart  student, I  assume  a  student  went and  wrote  what  we  call  as  a  wrapper, kind  of  a  simple  basically  a  program or  a  package  that  takes  cool  prop, and  it  makes  it  much  easier  to manage  for  this  more  complicated  system. The  wrapper,  in  this  case  is called,  the  Pi  fluid, one  of  the  homework  problems  takes you  through  how  to  essentially  use  it, but  that's  the  package,  the  script you  can  get  from  my  slides. But  in  short,  here,  I'm working  with  the  air  pressure, the  air  temperature,  the  relative  humidity, or  I  swap  relative  humidity  with  Wet  Bulb. This  looks  similar,  at  I  would say  a  bit  more  similar  to  IAP  WS, and  that  you  give  three  inputs, and  then  you  have  a  class.  All  right? So  here  is  the  statement  that  you  make. You  give  the  air  pressure,  the  temperature, the  relative  humidity,  or  swap relative  humidity  with  wet  bulb. I  need  to  find  that  class. It's  the  dot  notation. So  with  that  class,  if  you  go dot  Any  of  those  things, you  get  the  property,  right? Including  the  enthalpies that  that  come  with  it. So  again,  you  could  print  out  here the  absolute  humidity, enthalpy  relative  humidity, Du  point  temperature  specific  volume. You  don't  have  to  do  this  this  way, but  if  you  choose  not  to  do  it  this  way, it's  psychometric  charts  for  you, right?  It's  also  fine. You  know,  but  I  think  that they  look  much  cooler, maybe,  like,  you  know, in  a  poster  at  home  than  maybe  something you  actually  use.  But  what  do  I  know? Other  questions  about  this  so  far? Totally  inspired. Okay.  All  right.  Cool. So  let's  analyze  then,  let's  come  back  to our  adiobatic,  system  there. So  if  I  look  at  this, maybe  I'll  swap  the  position, so  it's  a  bit  easier  for  me  to  read. Did  anybody  know  the  company that  started  air  conditioning? Name  of  the  guy? Carrier.  Carrier.  So  Alright. Okay, so  this  adiabatic  saturation,  temperature. As  I  said,  the  ultimate  goal out  of  this  device  that  you  would  use  in practice  would  be  to  gain  information about  Am  I  still  on  full  screen? I  am.  Good. Right?  Is  to  gain  information  about, let's  say  the  Phi  or  P or  let's  say  the  Omega  one  with  it,  right? So  you're  interested  to  know  what is  the  humidity  of  the  air  that  enters. It's  clear  from  this  process that  you  know  what  would  exit, did  it  have  a  temperature  T  two, which  you  could  measure. You  would  assume?  What  would  you  assume  about the  humidity  of  the  exiting  stream  here? 100%.  Yes.  You  would  assume  you  would  be  100. It  would  be  100%.  And  from  this, what  I'm  going  to  tell  you right  now  is  that  by knowing  the  pressure  of  the AirP  two  and  with  this, we  would  know  I'll  make  it  two. I'll  come  with  a  bit  of  math.  But  in  short, you  use  this,  you  know, knowledge  of  how  you've constructed  this  here  with  the  fact  of no  heat  and  no  work  being  done,  right? There's  only  basically evaporation  that's  happening. You  get  to  the  saturated  condition. You  measure  the  temperature at  the  exit,  you  know, the  pressure,  and  you  know  you assume  that  you  Omega  two. And  with  that,  it's enough  information  with  measuring  T  one to  be  able  to  say  what  Ph  one or  or  Omega  one  would  be. So  the  purpose  of  this  present  derivation  is to  prove  to  you  that  that's  true. Okay,  so  wet  bulb  temperature. So  we're  entering,  right?  This  is, you  know,  entering  here  with  P  one. Right?  We're  assuming  that  it's  less, then  it  can  be  100%, but  then  if  it's 100%,  there's  no  evaporation. And  so  you'd  expect  no  change  then  in the  temperature  of  it. You  have  an  undersaturated  air that's  coming  in  at  T  one. Omega  one  is  the  absolute  humidity. And  then  it  exits  with  the  saturated  air, the  f  two  of  100%. You  have  a  temperature  T  two. And  the  liquid  water, we're  also  assuming  is delivered  at  a  temperature  T  two. So  this  liquid,  this  is liquid  water  that  we're then  replenishing  from  the evaporative  U  case  there. And  so  we  can  do  some  analysis, so  we  can  look  at  the  control  volume,  right? So  if  we  look  at a  control  volume,  for  example, for  example,  like  that,  And we  focus  first  then  on  the  evaporation. So  the  M  dot  evaporation is  equal  to  the  mass  of the  air  that's  entering  times the  absolute  humidity  two  that's exiting  minus the  absolute  humidity  that's  entering. And  this  makes  sense  because  you'd expect  the  water  continent  two  to be  greater  than  or equal  to  the  water  content  of  one, of  course,  equivalent  if  you enter  in  a  saturated  state. So  that's  how  much  is  evaporating. It's  steady  flow,  right?  So  e.in  t. E  dot  n  is  equal  to our  e  dot  is  equal  to our  e  dot  out  there.  Okay. And  so  there's  no  work and  there's  no  he  transfer done  in  the  control  volume. So  what  you  have  is  that  you  have  the  enthalp of  the  entering  stream,  right? So  it's  state  one  with  the  air  entering  with an  entop  H  one. We  have  the  dot. So  redraw  this  control  volume, go  look  more  like  this, right.  So  All  right. So  we  have  then  the  evaporation, which  is  also  entering,  right? So  that's  our  M  dot  evaporation  times  H  two, so  the  enthalpy  of  the  fluid  that's  entering, and  then  this  is  equal  to  m.ah2. And  if  it's  H  F,  this  would  indicate  liquid, and  so  I  should  have  stuck  with my  initial  gut  reaction. I'm  sorry.  Um,  Yeah. So  here  you're  entering with  the  fluid,  right? So  that's  the  H  F  two. We  have  this  M  dot  evaporation, which  it's  entering  with. We  also  have  the  air  entering, and  then  we  have  the  single  exit  stream, which  is  the  mass  flow  rate  of the  air  exiting  times  the  H  two  there. We  can  rearrange  this. You  can  rearrange  this, and  you  can  write  this  as  we  can  write  m.ah1. Plus,  and  looking  back  at  our  definition  of the  essentially  this  term substituted  into  here. So  you'd  have  then  M  dot  A, Omega  two  minus  Omega  one  times  F  two, and  then  this  is  equal  to  m.a2. And  if  we  re  arrange,  right? So  if  we  re  arrange  this with  our  H  one,  so  we  can  write  this. Essentially,  if  we  divide  here  by  A, these  are  all  going  to  drop  out,  right? So  it  drops  out,  drops  out,  drops  out. And  so  then  you  have  H  one plus  Omega  two  minus  Omega  one, H  F  two  equals  to  two.  That's  good. All  right.  Now  we're going  to  rely  on  the  fact  that  we're  going to  treat  the  water  vapor  and the  air  as  an  ideal  gas. For  this,  we  can  go back  to  our  definition  of  Omega. Or  Omega  was  by definition  equal  to  the  mass  of  the  vapor, divided  by  the  mass  of  the  air. So  from  the  ideal  gas  equation, this  is  going  to  be  P  V, V  divided  by  r  V  T, and  then  that's  divided  by  P  A  R  A  T. The  temperatures  cancel  the  volumes  cancel. And  so  then  this  is  P  V  divided  by  R  V, divided  by  P  A, divided  by  R  A. And  these  are  constants,  no. So  you  have  the  specific  or the  ideal  gas  constant  for  water  vapor, and  you  have  the  ideal  gas  constant  for  air. So  if  you  substitute  those  in, which  you'll  have  then  is  0.622 times  PV  divided  by  P  A.  All  right. We  can  also  substitute  for  the  PA. I  don't  have  it  written  here  now, but  you  can  recall  that  the  total pressure  is  equal  to the  partial  pressure  of  air  plus the  partial  pressure  of  water  vapor, so  we  can  rewrite  that  denominator. So  we  can  say  the  same  thing, P  V.  And  then  that  will  be  divided  by the  total  pressure  P minus  the  pressure  of  the  vapor. All  right,  for  Omega. Okay.  If  we  call  this, we  can  call  this  then  equation  one, and  we  can  call  this  one  then maybe  equation  equation  two. Maybe  we'll  go  to this  board  for  the  next  part. So  if  we  rewrite  equation  one, so  we  can  say  rewrite  Equation  one. So  we  can  take  this  enthalpy  term  here, and  we  can  split  it  into  the  contributions  to the  enthalpy  from  Air, and  then  the  contributions to  it  from  water  vapor. So  the  first  part  is  from  Air. So  how  do  we  talk  about enthalpy  with  an  ideal  gas? CP.  Yes.  Somebody  other  the  wees.  All  right? So  we  have  CP,  T  one, right,  for  the  H  one. And  then  we'll  have this  plus  Omega  one,  H  G  one, where  H  G  one  refers  to  the  enthalp  of the  water  vapor  and  a  gaseous  state  at at  temper  a  temperature  one  there,  right? And  then  this  is  plus. All  right.  So  where's  our  next  one. So  we  have  Omega  two. This  isn't  going  to  change. That's  going  to  stay  the  same. That's  going  to  be  Omega  two plus  u  minus  Omega  one, H  F  two.  Right. And  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to, we'll  do  the  same  thing to  the  right  hand  side. We'll  split  our  H  two,  right  CP  T  two, for  the  air  component. And  then  that'll  be  plus  Omega  two times  H  G  two,  right? So  if  we  rearrange  this  for  Omega  one, what  this  implies  then  is  that Omega  one  is  equal  to  C. So  the  specific  heat  constant  pressure of  air  is  t  two  minus  t  one plus  Omega  two  F  g  two, HFG  is  essentially  basically a  saturated  np  of  a  saturated  fluid  at  two, HG  is  a  saturated  vapor. H  FG  is  equal  to  G  minus  HF. Have  two  here,  and  then  this  is  divided by  the  H  G  one  minus  H  two. The  thing  I  want  you  to recall  is  the  formula  that we  had  for  Omega. We  can  write  that  Omega  then for  Omega  two.  So  at  the  exit. So  Omega  two  then  is  equal  to  0.622  times the  pressure  of  partial  pressure  of the  water  vapor  at  state two  divided  by  P  two, which  is  then  the  total  pressure minus  P  G  two. So  again,  the  partial  pressure. And  again,  for  this  system, recall  that  the  Relative  humidity at  state  two  was  100%.  Okay? So  why  does  this  matter? So  what  you  can  look  and see  from  this  is  that  we're  going  to  be able  to  determine  Omega  and  P by  measuring  pressure  and temperature  of  the  air entering  and  exiting,  right? So  if  I  want  to  make  this  concrete, maybe  I'll  move  this  one  out  of  the  way. Okay.  So  let's  say  we  measure  the  T  one. So  you  measure  T  one  coming  in. What  does  this  help  us  with? Well,  this  is  going  to  help  us  with. And  again,  we  know  we  know  P  one. Let's  say  we  know  P  one,  we  P. We  know  basically  the  total  pressure. And  then  we  know  with  T  one, this  is  going  to  help  us  with H  G  H  G  one  with  T  two  here,  right? This  is  going  to  help  us  with  H  F  two, and  it's  going  to  help  us  with  H  G  two. And  with  the  pressure  at  two, since  we  know  H  two  is  equal  to  100%, we  know  from  this  formula  here, what  Omega  two  is,  right? So  if  we  know  T two  and  T  one  because  we measure  them  good.  Omega  two. We  get  from  knowledge  of the  pressure  and  the  fact  that  it's  a saturated  or  a  relative  humidity  of  100%. We  know  HF  G  two because  again,  we  know  the  pressure, and  we  know  the temperature  H  G  one  because  again, pressure  and  temperature,  and  HF  two  again, because  pressure  and  temperature. And  so  out  of  that,  we  can  then  figure  out what  is  the  absolute  humidity  of the  air  that's  entering  into  our  device  here. Okay?  And  I  said, this  is  the  right? This  is  called  the  Adiabatic saturation  temperature. If  you  really  want  to  get the  adiobatic  saturation  temperature, you  need  to  use  a  device  like  this. However,  in  practice,  you  know, the  weapo  temperature  is a  close  approximation  of  that  value  there. Questions?  No.  Yes,  please. Omega  two  equation.  Yeah. So  the  Omega  two  that's  written here  is  taking the  equation  that  I  had  before, which  said  that  the  partial  pressure  of the  absolute  humidity  is equal  to  the  ratio  of the  ideal  gases  for your  vapor  and  air times  the  partial  pressure  of  water  vapor, divided  by  the  total  pressure  minus the  partial  pressure  of  water  vapor. All  I've  done  here  with  Omega  two  is  I've simply  written  it  as  G  two. G  is  for  gas,  gas,  right? So  indicating  like  your  property  tables that  that  it's the  vapor,  and  then  the  same  here. And  then  I  just  wrote  two  for the  total  pressure  because  that's the  total  pressure  at  the  exit  of  the  device. Sam? Forever,  forever. So  if  you  look  at  the  tables. So  if  you  look  at the  property  tables,  you  know, there  and  you  see  right? Within  the  saturated  region. So  in  the  saturated  region, you  would  see,  let's  say, either  a  saturation  temperature  or a  saturation  pressure  that's  there? You  would  then  see  some  specific  volumes. We  can  skip  that. What  you  then  see  is  HF. You  would  see  H  G,  and  you  would  see H  F  G  right into  the  property  tables.  All  right? And  what  this  is,  HF  is?  What? But  what  part  of  the  fluid? Saturated  fluid,  X  equals  zero. And  what  about  H  G? X  equals  one.  And  HF  G is  nothing  but  HG  minus  HF. So  that's  like  if  I  started  at a  liquid  and  I  supplied enough  energy  to  let's  say boil  it  all  the  way  to  the  vapor, this  is  the  difference. So  this  is  sometimes  called  the  enthalpy  of vaporization  there. And,  maybe  one  way to  perceive  that  is  that  that  would  be the  amount  of  energy  it  would take  to  take  this  liquid  from a  saturated  state  and turn  it  completely  into  the  vapor,  right? Petro? I  I  understand  how  we  what  we  converted like  one  and  two  into  CD  T  one. But  where  is  the  Omega? So  this  has  to  be  done  on  if  you  remember, we  dropped  dots,  right? So  at  M  dot  of  air or  of  water  when  we  wrote  this. O  Air.  And  so  if  you  want  to  get  this  right, you  need  to  correct  for the  fact  that  for  one  parcel  of, you  know,  mass  that  comes  in, that's  not  all  of, you  know,  you  need  to  basically  correct that  term  to  get  it  on  a  per  air  basis. And  that's  why  you  use  Omega  there. Okay?  That's  a  good  question,  though. Other  questions?  Yes,  please.  The. So  here,  I  can't  emphasize  enough  that, like,  on  this  design, there  is  no,  you  know, for  the  control  volume  that  I've  drawn  here, we  do  not  have  heat  transfer. This  thing  is  contrived in  a  way  where  there's no  work  and  no  heat  transfer. All  we  have  is  mass entering  and  mass  leaving. Obviously  the  temperatures  are different  of  what's  entering  and  leaving, but  we  don't  have  This  is  like, difficult  for  me  to  say  with  confidence. But  we  basically  do  not have  for  what  I'm showing  you  here  in  this  device, heat  transfer  from  the  environment  in. Okay?  There  is  a  cooling  effect,  right, that's  happening  because  you  have  evaporation internally  within  there. So  if  it's  under  saturated  air, T  two  is  going  to  be  less  than  T  one, and  then  that's  what  I'm showing  you  on  the  diagram,  right? Is  that  you  go  from  the  state  one, and  then,  you  know,  it's  small, but  you  essentially  land there  with  the  saturated  state at  that  temperature  T  two. Okay?  Other  questions?  A  lot  of  sneezing. You're  all,  like,  allergic  to  what I'm  teaching  today.  Alright? Okay.  If  there's  not  questions  about  that, then  what  I  would  do  is  I will  pivot  over  then  to a  cooling  tower  example  and  show you  something  that's  not  air  conditioning, but  is  useful  in  especially  in a  California  context  with water  losses  and  how  we  produce  our  energy. Alright.  And  I  only  have  red  markers. That's  all  they  gave  me  today. Okay.  Let's  go. I. Super. Okay,  so  let's  talk  about  this  problem. So  this  is  a  common  device. So  when  you  see  right  like  a  power  plant, thermoelectric  one,  and  you see  what  appears  to be  a  lot  of smoke  that's  leaving  from  it,  right? That's  not  smoke,  right? So  what  that  is  is  that's  essentially water  vapor  droplets, water  vapor  from  a  process  like  this,  right? So  you  essentially  have  a  lot of  these  droplets  that  get  in trained  within  the  air and  they  get  pulled  out. Actually,  if  you  see a  lot  of  seam  coming  from one  of  those,  it  means  they  did  a  bad  job. Right?  Because  that's  a  lot  of  water that's  escaping.  You  do  not  want  that. If  you  see  a  lot  of  the  cloud like  moving  from  a  cooling  tower, that's  like  a  bad  thing because  it's  losses,  right? So  you  have  this  warm  water,  which  would  come out  of  the  right,  you  have  the  Rankin  cycle. We  had  that  cooling  water  that  flew  g  went through  the  condenser  to connect  the  steam  out  of the  back  end  of  the  turbine. And  in  this,  what  you  would  do  is that  cooling  water  is  then  heated. And  one  of  the  ways  that  you  can  cool it  down  is  you  can  basically  spray  it  there. All,  you  get  some  evaporation  from  that, and  then  you  recollect  it  and  then send  it  back  to  the  surface  condenser? Because  there's  evaporation, you  need  to  make  up,  right? So  then  you  basically  put  the  water in  and  make  up. And  the  amount  of  losses  that  we  have, I  think  in  the  US  from processes  like  this  are not  It's  not  like a  huge  number,  but  it's  not  nothing. It's  like  a  couple  of  percent  of all  the  water  we  consume  each  year goes  towards  essentially  a  process that's  like  this. Can  anyone  think  of,  like, a  specific  power  plant where  that  might  be a  very  desirable  way  to  do  cooling? Yes.  Nuclear.  Why?  Petro  sorry. C.  Say  it  again. So  one.  A  nuclear  bite  off  to  operations. But  why  would  you do  it  this  way  and  not  just  take it  out  of  the  ground  and  pass  it through  the  system? Yeah.  The  ground. That's  a  valid  thing. I'm  thinking  even  simpler. Does  anyone  want  to  live  next to  a  nuclear  power  plant  that's taken  water  out  of  the  ground  passing through  it  and  put  it  back  in  your  ground? Where  I  grew  up,  I  used  to  run by  the  first  Manhattan  project. We  had  a  running  trail  by a  place  called  Argon  National  Lab, and  they  buried  the  entire  project, which  is  a  lot  of  graphite and  radioactive  material  there. I  was  by  a  pond.  You  can  go  see  it.  So I  can  tell  you, I  would  not  want  to  live  right  next  to  that. Okay.  So  that's the  device  we're  talking  about  here. And  you  can  see  what's  defined. So  we  have  here  the  inlet  of the  warm  water  coming  in  35  C,  exiting. We're  going  to  treat  this  as  I  believe  as a  saturated  liquid  that's coming  in  and  a  saturated liquid  that's  exiting. The  second  thing  that's  coming  in  is  air. So  if  air  coming  in  at  atmospheric  pressure, this  temperature,  this  relative  humidity, we  don't  know  the  volumetric  flow  rate. I  believe  that's  the  first  thing  we're  going to  we're  going  to  analyze. And  then  we  have  exiting,  right? So  then  essentially,  the  air  exits  at a  warmer  temperature,  and  that's  saturated. It  has  a  relative  humidity  of  100%. The  final  thing  that's  a  part  of  the  system, not  necessarily  of  well, to  essentially  make  this  work  is  that that  water  right  that evaporates  and  is  loss  must  be  made  up. So  we  have  this  make  up  component that  also  comes  in. But  we  know,  right?  We  know  T  three,  right? We  know  the  M  dot  of we  know  the  dot  of  the  water. R  that's  coming  in.  Know  the  T  four,  right? Which  is  then  what  the  water that's  exiting  when  it's  colder. We  know  the  pressure  of  our  air. We  know  the  T  of  the  air  you  know, outside,  so  that's  our  T  T  one,  right? So  we  know  T  one  there. We  know  RH  one,  let  me call  it  P.  Let's  call  it  Ph,  one. And  then  obviously,  we  know T  two,  which  is  the  exiting, and  we  know  that  P  two  is equal  to  100%,  right? And  if  you  click  and  you  were  to launch  on  the  notebook  there, you  can  see  exactly  how  I  would  determine, then  the  hop  then of  the  properties  for  the  state  three. So  in  short  for  State  three  here, so  if  we  speak  about  state  three, What  I  have  assumed  for  this  is  that the  X  three  is  equal  to  zero. And  from  T  three  and  X  three, I  have  I  have  my enthalp  three  for  state four.  I  do  the  same  thing. I  say  that  the  quality at  X  four  is  also  equal  to  zero, which  applies  that  I  know  H  four. They're  essentially  a  saturated, a  saturated  liquid. All  right.  For  the  air. So  if  we  come  back  now to  the  air  for  state  one. So  if  I  go,  let's look  at  this  then  for  state  one. For  state  one,  what  I'm defining  is  that  I  have  the  air  pressure. I  go  to  talk  about  three  things. I  have  the  air  pressure. I  have  T  one,  and  I have  P  one,  and  then  from  this, what  I'm  able  to  get  out  is  my  H one  Maybe  I  won't  use  commas. H  one  Omega  one and  my  specific  volume  one,  right? That's  important.  The  last  one  is  important because  we're  going  to be  interested  in  the  volumetric  flow  rate. So  we  solve  for  mass  flow  rate, you  can  use  specific  volume  then  to get  to  the  volumetric  flow  rate. There. So  I  know  these  three  things  for  State  two. Again,  for  State  two,  which  is  here. Again,  I  know  the  pressure  of  my  air. I  know  the  temperature  of  my  air, the  so  called  dry  bulb or  just  the  temperature, and  I  know  P  two. And  then  with  this,  what I  know  then  is  H  two, and  I  know  Omega  two  there. So  if  we  do  our  mass  balance, we  can  start  with  the  air. So  for  our  mask  balance  for  the  air,  right? I  have  m.a1,  right  is  then  entering  from the  side  is  equal  to  m.a2,  what's  exiting. We  assume  this  is  a  steady  process. So  we'll  just  call  that  as  M  dot  Air. If  we  now  look  at  the  water, so  how  is  water  entering? The  water  is  entering  from  State  three, so  M  three  where  it's  entering. We  also  have  it  entering  from  the  air,  right? The  air  itself  at  state one  has  some  humidity, so  there's some  water  content  coming  in  there, so  we  can  call  that  m.a1 times  Omega  one,  right? And  that's  equal  to  the  M  dot  four,  right? So  leaving  is  then  the  dot  four. And  then  what's  also  leaving  with  the  air, That's  M  A  two  times  Omega  two. So  we  have  two  we  have the  conservation  of  mass  now applied  if  we  look  at the  conservation  of  energy. So  what  we  can  write  is  that  we  have. Let's  call  this.  For  mass. Maybe  we  have  the  space. We'll  try  to  write  it  here. So  for  our  energy  then  we  have  m.a1, H  one  plus  t3h3, right  state  one. That's  good.  State  three  is also  entering  system  fantastic. So  then  we  can  look  now  at the  air  that's  leaving  right  or  m.a2, excuse  me,  H  two  and  then  plus  t  four. So  then  the  exiting fluid.4h4. That's  all  fine. Right?  So  the  second  thing  that  within this  problem  we  would  like  to  look  at is  is  the  amount of  mass  or  the make  up  water  that  we  have,  right? It's  a  relevant  thing  for  a  power  plane, too,  if  you  have  losses  like  that. So  based  on  this,  we  can  talk  about  then the  makeup  dot  makeup. Is  equal  to,  right? The  difference  between  the  water  that comes  in  and  the  water  that  exits,  right? So  M  dot  three  minus  four  there. Another  way  of  looking  at  this,  right? That's  from  the  water  perspective, but  you  could  also  look  at it  from  the  air  perspective,  right? Here  you  have  more  humidity than  you  have  here. So  this  could  also  be  written  as M  R  times  Omega  two, which  is  at  higher  humidity, minus  Omega  one  there. So  with  this  information  about  the  makeup, we  can  then  rewrite  our  energy  balance. So  we  can  rewrite  our  energy balance  as  first  of  all, you're  dropping  the  A  one  and  e  two, and  just  calling  it  t  A. So  we  can  call  this  A  one. Where's  my  other  one? Minus  H  two.  All  right. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  M  dot  three, which  is  then  times, this  is  Hold  on  a  second. So  we're  going  to  put this  one  to  the  other  side. That's  going  to  be  my  m.3h3 if  I  switch  that  to  the  other  side. And  then  that  is  plus. What  am  I  left  with  here? I  have  a  one  H  two. This  is  to  here,  then  I  have  my  m.h4. Then  here,  essentially,  I  have m  dot  four  times  four. Mm  dot  four  from this  formula  is  equal  to  the  make  up  water. Mm  dot  three  minus  the  makeup  water. So  what  you  can  write  out  here is  that  you  have  M  dot  three minus  Mu  times  four.  All  right. Okay,  then  the  dot  makeup, we  know  is  equal  to  the  m  dot  a  Omega  two. So  this  is  m  dot  a  Omega  two  minus  Omega  one. So  now  we're  working  to  get  this  towards the  case  where  we  no  longer  need the,  so  we  can  rewrite  this, and  this  will  become  Mm  m  dot  a, one  minus  two  is  equal  to  four  t  three. So  essentially,  these  terms  here. This  is  the  minus  H  four. We're  not  coming  to  this  term,  four  times  our m  a  Omega  two  minus  Omega  one p  a negative  m.3h3  there. And  if  we  took  this and  we  simplified  it  down, I  will  in  the  interest  of  time  do  that. What  you  can  write  then  is  that the  mass  flat  of  air  that's  entering  is  equal to  m.3h3  minus  H  four,  M  dot  three,  we  know. And  then  this  is  H  two  minus  H  one minus  H  four  times  Omega  two  minus  Omega  one. There,  this  becomes  volumetric  flow  rate, when  we  recall  that  the  volumetric  flow  rate is  equal  to  the  mass. Let  me  think  about  this  again.  So
