Especially  we'll spend  a  little  bit  of  class  time, you  then  talking  with  another  group. So  essentially,  we  call  it peer  feedback,  but  it's  a  good  way  to,  like, a  very  efficient  way  to,  quickly, have  everyone  raise  the  level  of  the  work. And  the  spirit  of  it  is essentially  that  I  can't  ask  you an  assessment  on a  difficult  cascade refrigeration  system  on  the  exam. So  this  is  a  chance  for  you'd actually  go  like  a  bit  deeper, do  something  with  that is  a  bit  more  like  what  an  engineer  would  do. Like  we  get  a  bigger  more  complex  system. Here's  the  initial  state of  it  as  I've  defined  it, and  then  tell  me  how  through thermodynamics,  you  make  it  better. You  know,  that's  the  idea. Okay?  And  use  Jupiter  or  Matt  Lab  for  it. So  like  a  script, and  then  would  make my  life  easier  if  it  was  Jupiter, but  if  you  like  Matlab,  do  Matlab. So  do  you  had  to  do  Yeah.  Okay. But  if  you  do  Mt  Lb,  you  got  to  let  me  know because  then  you  got  to  use what's  called  the  live  script. And  yeah,  but  it's  okay. Either  way,  it's  fine.  So  just  been  using. Yeah,  well,  I  assumed  it  was  only  Jupiter because  that's  all  we  teach  now  a  Jupiter. Congratulations,  Amelia. So  but  it  turns out  a  bunch  of the  classes  was  trained  on  Mat  lab. But  in  the  future, it's  all  It's  all  going  to  be  Python. So  good.  Okay,  great. O79 Okay, I  got  310.  I'm  going  to  get  started. Much  like  Winter, mid  term  two  is  coming.  All  right? Most  thing  I'm  going  to point  out  to  you  is  that  X or  G  is  not  on  mid  term  two. And  so  if  you  see  how Module  two  looks  like  it's essentially  three  things  that  are  there. So  if  the  homeworks,  pap, I  get  a  bunch  of  extended office  hours  and  stuff. So  if  none  of  those  work, just  shoot  me  a  message. Probably  have  to  jump  on  Zoom,  Mx. S  s  in  class. Yeah,  so  we're  doing  in  class. We're  going  to  do  this  in  class. Like,  I'm  an  experimentalist. Like  any  good  experimentalist. You  have  a  control. So  this  is  a  control.  No,  I'm  kidding. The  point  is  that  this  is  a  traditional in  class  exam, so  it'll  be  three  problems. If  you  want  to  gauge  the  types  of  problems, well  I  just  said you're  testing  on  three  things, so  three  problems,  you  can  read between  the  lines  on  that. There's  a  practice  term right  that's  online  on  B  courses. Have  a  look  at  that. Right?  The  difficulty  level is  intentionally  higher  on  that  there. Yeah,  but  we're  going  to  do  it. Don't  expect  to  have  to  do really  difficult  property  table  lookups. Don't  expect  interpolation, expect  like,  hey,  here's  table, I  don't  know,  A  one  through what  are  the  ones  you're  using  regularly? Four,  seven,  whatever. So  like,  these  things  will  be  on  one  page. You  tear  it  out,  you  have  it.  But  yeah. Other  questions? You  can  also  see the  details  on  what's  allowed,  right? So  a  programmable, non  communicating  calculator, you  can  work  with  two  pages,  front  and  back. So  letter  sized  sheets. All  right?  Not  a  four  here. Letter  sized,  front  and  two  pages, front  and  back  each  there. Okay?  And  closed  book.  All  right. If  you  want  open  book,  it's  fine, but  I'm  going  to  writ a  real  hard  exam  for  an  open  book,  right? Going  once.  Going  twice. Okay, I  think  most  details  are  on  that,  right? Great.  So  today, we  have  a  lot  of  ground  to  cover  today, and  we're  going  to  switch a  little  bit  of  gears. So  we'll  finish  off with  the  refrigeration  stuff  we've  done. You're  going  to  finish  off  with  that  on Wednesday  with  doctor  Regula  gata. But  today,  I'm  going  to  tell  you the  meaning  of  hop  and  tell you  about  a  couple  of  other  sort  of related  potentials, and  then  we're  going  to enter  into  some  relations. So  we'll  talk  a  bit  about  what are  called  Maxwell's  relations. So  the  only  regret  I  had my  undergraduate  career  of  thermo, one  class  I  missed and  all  the  time  was  Maxwell. So  hopefully  I  do  a  good  job  today. All  right.  So  again, so  we  talked  about  entopr enthalp  we  looked  at this  from  the  problem  of  the  flow  work, you  know,  and  we  were  using  that  to  extract this  PV  out  of the  work  transfer  so that  the  work  would  just  be, you  know,  shaft  work,  you  know,  useful  work. With  it,  the  definition was  internal  energy  plus  PV. There  are  two  other  ones, right  that  are  commonly  used. So  I'll  start  with  Helmholtz  Helmholtz  was a  famous  German  physicist in  the  19th  century. And  so  Helmholtz  is the  internal  energy  minus temperature  times  entropy. We'll  get  into  a  second  why  that's  useful. And  then  there's  the  so  called Gibbs  Free  Energy  named  after the  American  engineer  physicist, Gibbs,  who  we've  talked  about  before. And  that's  the  internal  energy  plus PV  minus  temperature  and  entropy. So  we  can  go  into  a  little  bit  the enthalp  Let's  look  at that  for  a  second,  right? Okay. So,  we  looked  at  internal  energy,  right? And  one  thing  I'm  going  to  tell  you,  right, is  that  the  internal  energy, and  when  we  talked  about  this,  right, we  only  had  to  describe  two  things  to  know complete  information,  right  about  the  state. So  it  turns  out  that  for  internal  energy, if  you  want  to  have sort  of  that  complete  knowledge,  right? We  the  entropy  and  the  volume. This  U,  when  I  write  you  is  equal  to  this, for  your  textbooks,  and this  is  not  in  your  book,  right? So  I'm  telling  you  something  that people  don't  teach  you,  right? So  pay  attention.  Right? So,  This  is  what's called  the  fundamental  equation. So  I'm  telling  you  here  that internal  energy  here  depends on  for  a  simple  system  tripan  volume. All  right. And  things  like  temperature and  pressure  are  derived  concepts. So  if  I  take  the  differential  of  this,  right, partial  U  partial  S  for  constant  V,  D  S, partial  u,  partial  V, constant  S  for  d  V,  right? That  DU  DS,  DUDS, for  constant  V  is the  definition  of  temperature,  right? This  is  actually  what That  is  temperature,  right? And  pressure  is  the  negative of  DUDV  for  constant  entropy. The  reason  why  it's negative  is  because  pressure, we  call  it  positive because  we  interacted  with  pressure long  before  people wrote  thermodynamics  textbooks, okay?  So  that's  the  definition. But  these  things, these  intensive  properties,  right, temperature  and  pressure  are derive  concepts  of the  extensive  state,  right? So  entropy  and  volume. These  are  extensive. What  does  extensive  mean? We'll  go  with  the  raising  of  their  hands, Jackson?  Depends  on  then. Okay.  Am  I  going  to  make  this  throw or  no?  Am  I  Mendoza? Today  I  am.  Okay.  That's  not  on  me. That's  not  on  me.  Alright. Alright,  so  what  you  would  like  to  do, because  the  point  is  that,  you  know, measuring  these  concepts,  right? Measuring  entropy  and  volume  are  difficult. If  I  told  you  to  measure  the  volume of  this  room,  he's  smart  kids, you  might  get,  you  know, some  rulers  and  whatever  and  figure  it  out, be  a  pain  in  the  ass,  but  you  could  do  it. If  I  told  you  to  measure  the  entropy  of this  room,  what  do  you  do  then? You  cry.  You  run  away, you  say,  I  don't  like  this  class,  right? So  you  can't  measure  that's not  something  that's  easy. But  if  you  could  measure temperature,  and,  you  know, if  you  could  have complete  information from  temperature  and  pressure, boy,  that  would  be  much  easier.  Alright. Okay,  so  you  go  here,  you take  this  fundamental  equation. You  say,  look,  okay,  I'm  going to  say,  k,  volume. Alright? That's  the  extensive  parameter  is  volume. The  intensive  parameter associated  with  it  is  then  pressure. You  say,  L,  I'm  just  going  to  go. I'm  clever.  I'm  going  to  say, look,  I  don't  need volume  of  put  pressure in  there,  and  I'm  done. And  you  say,  Okay,  good.  I  go  home. Alright.  So  let's  say  I'm postulating  that  the  curve, let's  say  that  internal energy  has  this  kind  of, you  know  relationship  with  volume  here. I  don't  know  if  it's  wrong, but  it  sort  of  makes  sense  there  would  be a  minimum,  right  of  energy. And  I've  got  this  point,  right? So  I  specified  in  this  plane,  right? This  would  be  sort  of  a  constant  try  plane, right, I  specify  this  point  in  volume. The  slope  at  that  point  would be  D  UDV,  right? The  internal  energy  at that  point  would  be  here. And  it's  great.  Okay,  so  that  all  looks  good. However,  you  know,  if this  curve  was  then,  you  know, moved  because  I'm  feeling  a  bit  crazy, and  so  I  shift  it  over  and I  do  the  same  thing,  and  that. And  the  point  is  that  in  taking the  derivative  of  that, you've  lost  something. What  have  you  lost?  I  don't  know,  simple. Like  I'm  thinking  like,  y  equals  mx  plus  b. If  I  take  the  derivative,  Yeah. Paul?  Yeah,  you  lose what  is  more  specifically  the  constant? Y  intercept.  You  lose the  y  intercept  in  that,  right? That's  the  idea.  Paul,  I'm  not  that  brave. So  I'm  going  to  set  that  there  for  you. Okay.  So  that's  the  point.  So  you  lose  that. In  taking  that  derivative, right,  you've  lost  some  information. So  what  you  can  do  is  you  can  say,  Okay, what  I  will  do  for  this  line  is, I  will  define  a  bunch  of  points  in  math. They  call  this  a  locus. Jackson's  the  math  major,  right? You  can  correct  me  if  I'm  wrong. But  essentially, you  can  do  that.  Which  is  good. This  define  sort  of,  you  know, an  envelope  of  points  there  very  good. And  we  can  also recognize  at  the  same  time  that  we can  define  that  y  intercept, you  know  that  we  originally  had  there. So  I  can  fine  this  point,  I can  define  that  slope. And  then  with  that  slope,  I  can  define  then, you  know,  the  y  intercept  on  the  y  axis. So  with  that  derivative  and  the  intercept, you  know,  now  I have  that  complete  information. Again,  I'm  calling  it  zero  H.  You can  see  hopefully  where  I'm  going  with this  So  zero  and  volume, and  then  H  as  my  y  intercept. I  can  do  that  for  all  of  those different  points  along  the  curve. Right?  Each  of  them  is then  going  to  give  me  sort  of a  different  value  of the  y  intercept  with  it,  right? Good.  So,  right  then, the  slope  then  there  is  ultimately  then going  to  be  right  the  internal  energy,  right? Minus  R, the  y  intercept  and  then  divided by  the  volume  that  it  varies  over, right  at  this  point  is  u  here,  right? That's  my  H.  So  I  go  up  that  amount, and  I  go  over  that  amount, and  that  is  now,  you know,  the  slope  of  the  line. Exactly.  So  u  minus  in  the  V. And  so  if  I  then  go  and  I  rearrange  this, I  say  H  is  now  u  minus du  dv  for  constanti  p  and  V,  right? So,  this  is  nothing  but  like Calc  one  plus  maybe algebra  and  seventh  grade  for  you,  alright? There's  a  name  for  this  process. This  is  called  Legendre  transformation, right? So  I  took  one  of the  extensive  state  variable,  you  know, or  one  of  the  extensive  properties  volume, and  I've  swapped  it  now for  its  intensive  one. And  what  I've  gotten  is  that that  original  internal  energy that  I  have  is  no  longer  that. It's  H,  right,  and  that  u  is  minus then  the  DU  DVS  times  V,  right? So  you've  made  this  now, this  energy  because  it You  know  the  Y  axis  is  still  energy. So  it's  all  energy,  but  now  this  energy depends  on  the  NRP  and  the  pressure. And,  of  course,  we  call  that  H,  what? Entropy.  That's  it.  That  was  an  easy  one. Easiest  two  starbs  you  ever  got,  huh? Easier  than  trick  or  treat. So  here,  and  so these  ligander  transformed  functions, we  call  these  thermonemic  potentials. So  we  got  entropy  like  that. Helmholtz,  right? Helmholtz  is  where  you  take the  entropy  in  volume and  you  swap  entropy  for  temperature. So  that's  T  V.  Interestingly, this  is  the  one  that  they  use for  weather  modeling. So  there's  a  Helmholtz  potential  that defines  all  the  properties  of  water. And  my  understanding,  it  could  be  wrong, but  my  understanding  of  IAP WS  is  essentially  all  of those  properties  that  you  get  in the  end  are  some  Helmholtz  function. And  the  rest  of  it, we  basically  get  from  that. And  then  the  last  one  is  Gibbs,  right? So  Gibbs,  you  can  see  as  kind  of a  combination  of  al  P  and  Helmholtz. So  right  in  Helmholtz, we  swapped  V  p  P.  I  Helmholtz, we  swapped  S  for  T,  and  in  Gibbs, we  swap  S  for  T  and  V  for  P,  right? And  why  do  we  think  that,  for  example, Gibbs  might  be  an  interesting  potential? So  B  was  helpful,  right? Because  we  were  looking  at  systems where  the  volume,  right? The  change  in  the  volume  was essentially  zero  there,  right? Hemolt  is  helpful  when  you're  dealing  with energy  transfer  from  a  reservoir that's  at  constant  temperature. It's  interesting.  I  kind of  want  to  cut  the  starbt  in  half, but,  you  know,  maybe I'll  put  it  up  for  you  here. So  it's  helpful  when  you're  dealing, for  example,  with  a  chemical  reaction. You  know? So  if  you  have  something  that's  happening  at constant  temperature  and  pressure  there, and  you  want  to  analyze then  the  energy  change  over  it, that's  a  convenient  potential  to  work  with. So,  these  ones  are  kind  of,  you  know, you  choose  them  when  it  makes  your  life  a bit  a  bit  easier,  right? So,  And  for  the  point  of  simplicity, there's  other  things  that  you  can  add  in. You  know,  so  here,  we  didn't  do  moles. I  didn't  put  surface  area,  right. I  just  went  with  the  entropy  and the  volume  there,  ok? So,  your  textbook,  I don't  believe  writes  this. I  personally,  again,  I  like  to  know how  things  where  they  come  from and  who  did  them  and  all  of  that. Yeah,  so  that's  what  I'm  telling  you. So  not  in  your  book,  but  I think  it's  instructive. Okay. So, now  we've  talked  about  different  potentials, and  maybe  some  of  them are  more  convenient  depending on  the  nature  of  the  process  involved, so  I  don't  know a  constant  temperature,  pressure  or  volume. They're  good.  The  next  thing we  would  like  to  do, and  this  is  what  the  you  know, so  looking  into  thermo, historically,  we're  interested  in, like,  work  heat  transfer  into  work,  right? This  is  a  lot  of  the  19th  century. After  that,  they  people  became  more interested  in  understanding spontaneous  processes. So  why  does  something  start  on  fire? Why  does  a  reaction,  you know,  proceed  that  way? You  know,  questions  along  this. And  that  got  much  more  into  chemistry. So  people  were  interested  to understand  why  does, you  know,  one,  you  know, let's  say  process  proceed spontaneously  and  the  other  doesn't. Okay?  And  so  we're  going  to  talk  a  little bit  about  that  right  now. Okay,  so  if  you  take  again, now  we  talk  about  the  Gibbs  free  energy. So  we  take  the  Gibbs  free  energy, which  is  capital  G.  You  know,  we  can  say, okay,  for  a  single  component  system, so  it  has  a  temperature, it  has  a  pressure,  it  depends  on. Let's  say  that  surface area  effects  are  important, so  we're  not  going  to  neglect it  for  now,  so  we  keep  that  in. And  then  the  number  of  moles, right  of  that  single  component. Alright?  First  thing. For  a  single  phase  multi  component  system, we  don't  just  have  that  1  mole  number. We  have  several,  right?  We  moles, correspond  the  index  here  corresponds then  to  the  component  that  you  want. Alright,  H  hang  on  with  me  for  a  second. Okay. If  I,  'cause  I'm  feeling  a  bit  crazy, take  Alpha  and  I  multiply  it  by  G, this  is  going  to  be  equal,  right Alpha  times  G  Alpha, then  is  the  size  of  the  system. So  what  parameters  are  going  to get  affected,  not  temperature, not  pressure  a  these  are  intensive, areas  affected,  and mol  numbers  are  affected,  right? Cause  these  are  then  extensive  parameters. They  depend  on  the  size  of  the  system,  right? So  if  I  take  this  whole  G  here, and  again,  I'm  feeling  a little  bit  more  crazy  about  it. I  say,  k,  I'm  not  going  to  differentiate  with respect  to  Alpha  and hold  those  other  things  constant. So  what  this  will  look  like  is  you're going  to  have  the  partial  derivative  of G  with  respect  to  Alpha  A  times  A, and  so  on  and  so  forth  with  it. If  you  say  Alpha  is  a  real  number, for  example,  one  with  it, you're  going  to  be  able  to  write  this. So  you're  going  to  say  that  the  Gibbs energy  is  the  area times  the  partial  derivative  of G  with  respect  to A,  holding  temperature  pressure, and  the  mole  number  is  constant  plus the  summation  of  your  mole  numbers, times  the  partial  derivative  of  G  with respect  to  n  again,  for  constant  T, PA,  and  all  other  mole  numbers except  for  the  index  involved,  right? There's  one  more  step  and  then  we're  home. Okay,  that  first  one  is  the  definition  of surface  energy  on a  Gibbs  basis,  right,  DG  DA. That  should  make  sense.  So  how  does the  free  energy  change  with  area? Right?  That's  going  to  be  surface  energy. And  then  the  other  one  we  haven't  defined  it. So,  you  know,  essentially, how  does  the  free  energy  change when  I  add  a  mole  of  something  to  the  system, or  I  subtract  a  mole  of something  from  the  system. And  this  we  call  as the  chemical  potential, right,  chemical  potential. There.  One  way  that  this  is  useful. So  if  I  think,  for  example, something  like  I  don't  know. We  do  a  lot  of  stuff  with  I  don't  know, maybe  something  like  I  don't  know, a  droplet  or  some  liquid  in  a  vapor,  right? This  liquid  is  going  to  have some  chemical  potential,  right? The  vapor  is  going  to have  some  chemical  potential. And  why  this  is  helpful  is  you  can say  when  these  things are  in  equilibrium,  right? So  if  we  say, they're  in  equilibrium,  All  right? What  could  be  helpful? You  can  basically  say  that Mu  L  is  equal  to  Mu  V,  right? I'm  not  going  to  go  any  further  than  that, but  there  is  utility. The  mechanical  what  would  be a  mechanical  equivalent  of  this? How  many  are  in  mechanics  at  the  moment? You  all  were  telling  me that  you  had  an  exam  that  hurt. Okay.  Maybe  you  had  amnesia  about  it. So  that's  chemical  equilibrium. What's  a  mechanical  equilibrium? Yeah,  sum  of  forces  is  zero,  right? So  that's  like  your  chemical version  of  that,  right? Mechanical  equilibrium,  which  would based  on  pressures  that  are  there. And  you  can  also  have  that. And  with  those  two  conditions, you  can  do  a  lot,  right? Okay.  Great. Yeah.  And  so  for  the  single  component, the  molar  Gibbs  function  is  equal  to the  chemical  potential  there, just  giving  you  this  as  some  information. And  you  can  go  on,  and  right  now, I've  only  defined  it  for  the  Gibbs  potential, but  you  can  do  this  also  for  the  other  ones. So  again,  we  said  DG  DN. It  can  be  DU  DN, DHDN,  D  FDN  there. And  again,  it  can  tell  you  I  don't  know. I  can  tell  you  about  equilibrium, but  it  can  also  tell  you  about a  tendency  to  react. So  how  do  you  think the  chemical  potential  would  change? So  if  I  said,  this  is  state  one, Mu  of  one,  I  don't  know,  state  one. And  then  this  is  a  chemical  potential  at state  two  of  a  process. What  would  the  difference  need  to  be for  a  process  to  be  spontaneous  there? Petro?  Say  it  one  more  time. The  difference  with  greater than  greater Simpler  than  this,  simpler  than  this. So  the  analogy  I  would  have  you draw  on  is  what  direction  does  heat  flow? What  tells  you  the  direction  that heat  transfer  processes  go? High  to  low,  right? Yeah.  So  that's  it,  right? I  still  don't  feel  brave  enough  there.  How. Alright.  So  that's  it,  right? So  basically,  this  will  tell, you  know,  actually  it's  the  other  way. Sorry.  I'm  getting  a  little. You  know, basically  the  chemical  potential then  of  your  final  state, if  it's  less  than  the  chemical potential  of  your  initial  state, you  can  expect  that  that  process is  spontaneous,  okay? Alright?  Cool. And  so  I  tell  you  about  the  react  with substances  transform  into  another  state, right? So  that  could  be  something  like a  phase  transformation. If  you  wanted  to  predict  if  you  know, for  example,  something  was  going  to solidify  or  vaporize  there. Of  course,  we  can  look  at temperatures  and  say,  okay, that's  above  or  below  a  saturation  point, but  you  can  also  use chemical  potentials  for  that, right?  And  also  migrate. So  migrate  might  be  what  diffuse, move,  you  know,  things  like  that,  right? Okay.  So  now  we're  going  to  go  in, and  we're  going  to  use  some  of this  so  we  haven't  now defined  this  quantity,  that's  good. The  next  thing  I  want  to  do  though  with thermal  properties  is  that  it's  helpful  not only  to  be  able  to  measure things  like  T  and  P, and  to  know  how  that affects  the  energy  of  it, but  it's  sometimes  also  helpful. So,  for  example,  I  want  to  work with  something  like  chemical  potential, but  that's  also  a  difficult quantity  to  measure. And  so  it's  helpful  to  be able  to  relate  things  like  this, which  are  the  intensive  properties to  other  intensive properties  that  we  measure. More  specifically,  changes  in  a  process  here, in  this  value  to  changes  in the  other  measurable  quantities,  right? And  so  that's  the  journey  we're  going to  go  down  for the  next  couple  of  slides,  right? And  then  we'll  do a  little  interactive  thing  to see  if  you  Yeah, if  this  is  moved  into your  brain  or  not,  right? So  we  can  take  this  definition of  the  Gibbs  free  energy. You  can  take  the  total  differential. So  what  does  that  look  DG,  right? Gamma  DA,  A  D  gamma, Mu  D  N  N  D  mu. Good.  That's  nothing,  but again,  Calc  one  there. Um  We  can  now  look  back,  right? So  that's  from  our  equation.  There. We  can  also  recall,  right,  that,  you  know, G  is  a  T  and P.  So  if  I  take  the  differential  of  that, the  full  one,  what's  that  going  to  be? It's  going  to  be  D  G,  D  P, right  for  constant  T  A,  and  n, so  temperature  area,  and  n, you  know,  DP  plus  DG. You  know,  DT  for  constant  P  A, and,  you  know,  DT, and  so  on  and  so  forth  there,  right? This  is  the  definition  of  I'm  sorry, this  is  the  definition  of  volume  here. Right?  This  is  your  definition  of  entropy, negative  of entropy  there  and  so  on  and  so  forth. So  again,  remembering now  that  we  have  a  function that's  depending  only on  these  intensive  properties, it's  the  extensive  ones, which  are  then  the  derived  concepts  with  it. So  you  have  this  as  another  way  to  define  it. Okay,  so  you  have  this  DG, right,  which  we  have  you  know,  have  this  DG. And  now  I  want  to  ask  a  simple  question, which  is, you're  given  these  two  differentials. And  I  want  to  know,  can  you  relate  changes  in the  chemical  potential  to changes  of  other  variables? And  two  are  the  intensive  properties. So  temperature,  pressure,  surface  energy, are  these  things  that  are  independent, or  do  they  depend  on  each  other? Okay?  Does  that  make  sense? Questions  about  this  activity? I  don't  know. I  got  three  starbucks  to  go,  okay? All  right.  So,  I  would  say,  take  5  minutes. You  know,  again,  seriously  talk  with the  neighbor  through  it. There's  no  poll  for  this. I'm  just  going  to  call  randomly  on  it, and  then  we'll  be  done then  with  the  property  relations, and  we  can  get  on  with  Maxwell,  okay? Good.  So  5  minutes,  and  then  we'll  talk. We  have  this. Hey,  Paul.  This  makes  me  think  that. B,  Yeah,  but  look  at  ent, what's  the  value  of  It doesn't  depend  on  volume,  right? Volume  is.  Where's  volume  in  that? Zero.  Yes.  Okay.  So  I  see  that  it's  there, but  what  I'm  telling you  is  that  with  the  math, this  is  true,  what  I'm  writing. And  that's  the  gender  part,  right? So  you  got  to  have a  little  bit  of  faith  in  me. Yeah.  Sure.  A  temperature  and  V.  Yeah. The  temperature  in the  depend  Doesn't  need  to  be  there. So  here's  what  I'm  saying. This  is  not  like  algebra. This  is  definitely  not  your  algebra. All  right. So  what  I'm  saying  is  that I  took  internal  energy, and  I'm  postulating,  it  only depends  on  entropy  and  volume. With  that  I  have, you  know,  complete  information. And  then  I'm  doing  some  math  and I'm  developing  and  swapping the  entropy  in  the  volume  for temperature  and  pressure  for these  different  cases  there. Okay.  And  the  way to  visualize  that  there  is  that  it  doesn't, right,  volume,  in  that  case,  right,  it's  not. And  then  that's  the  whole  part  about the  le  gendre  transformation. So  but  I'm  with  you,  man. I  agree.  I  look  at  it  and  don't make  sense,  but  I'm  telling  you  it's  true. All  right?  Yeah.  That's  probably why  they  don't  put  it  in  the  textbook. It  raises  more  questions  than  answers. Okay. Good.  Questions.  I  like  this.  Look  at  that. Beautiful.  Just  cross  it  all  out. That's  what  I  do.  Cross  it  all  out. How  we  do  here  again I  love  this. How  we  doing  back  here? So  changes  in  chemical  that  means  Du. D  mu.  So  change  would  basically  be  like  Du. So  if  I  look  at  the  top formula  on  the  right  hand  side, that's  the  Du  would  be  like  a  change  in the  chemical  potential  of  substance,  right? So  that's  the  change. Yeah.  So  you  would  want  to  have that  then  related  to  some  other  changes. Yeah,  don't  overthink  it.  That's  my  feedback. Yes.  Sometimes  it's  like  that. So  maybe  you  share  that  with  the  group  of. Yeah.  Yes.  I  have  Sure  We're  not  doing  it. That  was  my  first  slide.  My  second  slide  was, we're  not  doing  g  any  exam. No  exam  has  erg  Even  the  final  exam  also  has no  g  that's  also  in  the  syllabus, but  it's  two  pages  front  and  back,  t,  letter. You  know  in  the  US  way  of  letter,  letter. A  four  A  good  here. Okay.  Aw  we  doing  here?  The  first  one. Sure.  So  what's  the  question? So  what  it's  asking  for is  changes  in  chemical  potential. So  here  in  this  formula, change  in  chemical  potential  which  of those  terms  looks  like chemical  potential  is  changing? Mum  Yeah,  the  sum,  right? So  the  D  D, that's  going  to  be a  change  in  chemical  potential. Okay. And  the  idea  is  that you're  thinking  about,  okay, I'm  going  to  a  state and  I'm  at  a  current  state. And  the  question  you're normally  asking  yourself  is, is  this  going  to  happen  or  not? And  there  you're  interested in  decreases  of  it. So  usually  you're  talking  about  a  DMU, but  just  like  entro  P,  you can  measure  these  things. So  then  you  want  to  relate it  to  things  that  are  measurable, and  that's  the  idea  with  this. But  yeah,  that's  right. So  could  you  isolate  for the  second  equation. Plug  that  back.  There  we  go. That's  great.  Talk  to  you. How  are  we  doing  here?  I'm  trying to  figure  out  how  to  separate it.  That's  good. Yeah,  it's  a  good  t.  Okay.  Okay. Alright,  that's  five  for  me.  So  I'm  going to  we'll  just  discuss. Okay,  so  I  am  going  to  call at  I  don't  know,  at  random  here. Unless  some  wants  to  volunteer. You  can  volunteer,  and  if  you  don't volunteer,  I'm  to  start  calling  people. Okay.  Paul,  your  group, care  to  share?  Your  thoughts. So All  right, I'm  going  to  try  to  keep  up. Basically,  where  I'm  at  is, you  said  the  two  are  equal, so  you  have  a  minus  or  you  have a  you  have  a  gamma  d  a, plus  A  D  gamma  plus the  summation  over  i  to  j  of, d  and  p  of  i  to  j of  n  d.  Then  this  is  equal  two. V  d  minus  S  dt  plus  gamma  d p  the  sum  of  i  to  j  of  Mu  d  N.  Okay? So  walk  me  through  the  next  part. And  this  Yes. Okay.  So  then  if  I  do  a  minus  a  D  gamma minus  a  D  gamma,  right? That's  then  I  suppose  I  can  just  erase  now. So  then  I'm  kind  of  y. Okay.  Well,  I'll  just  write  it. So  then  here,  you'd  have then  the  summation  of  over  j, d  i  is  equal  to  d  p  minus  S  dt minus  a  D  gamma.  Bravo. Did  anyone  else  have  something  different  with that? This  thing  is,  like. Okay.  I  hope  that's  recording. Um D. Okay.  Great. Okay,  so  nobody  anything  different  from  this? Anything  to  discuss?  Yes? Gamma  is  surface  energy. So  this  is  like,  if  I  take a  material  and  I  cut  it  in  half, the  energy  it  would  require  me  to  create those  two  new  interfaces  surface  energy. So  it's  a  measure  basically  of kind  of  the  cohesion  between  molecules. That  was  also  the  example  we  worked with  with  the  film, The  soap  film  and  we  stretched  it. We  needed  gamma  for  that. I  guess  what  you're  telling me  there  is  that  in  that  problem, there  we  were  calling  it  Sigma,  right? Yeah,  I'm  sorry  for  that.  So  in fluid  mechanics,  this  is  fluids. And  in  thermodynamics, they  usually  call  it  gamma. I'm  sorry  for  that.  Yes.  That  we  have? Are  you  able  to  show  or  change the  Let's  talk  about  it. So  I'm  looking  now  at  this  formula  here. Okay?  And  so  for  part  two, are  the  intensive  parameters dependent  or  independent  on  each  other? And  why?  Intensive  as. I  guess  that's  intensive. So  which  ones  are  intensive? So  this  is  the  way  to  think  about  intensive, is  does  it  depend  on  size  or  not? So  if  we  took  V  and  I  told  you, you  know,  does  that  V  depend on  the  size  of  your  system? Yeah.  So  that  is  not  intensive. And  P?  Say  it  again. Intensive.  S. Extensive,  T  intensive,  A  intensive  gamma. No.  A  extensive,  gamma  intensive,  right? These  things  are  basically  paired,  right? So  you  have  the  volume  and pressure  is  like  the  derived concept  from  volume. And  pressure  is  intensive.  There's  rap, temperatures  the  derived  concept. It's  intensive.  A,  and then  and  gamma  is  then  the  derived  one. And  so  the  point  is,  if  you  look  at  Right, the  D  Mu,  right? These  other  ones  here  are  V  S  and  A. These  are  not  changing,  right? This  is  the  constant  part  of  it. And  so  variations  in  Mu must  then  be  balanced with  either  variations  in  P, in  T  or  in  gamma,  right? Gallon. It's  not  based  on  the  area,  right? So  this  is  like,  I  take the  way  to  think  about  it  is  like  this. You  know,  we  have  the  soap  foam,  right? And  you  stretched  it. And  so  the  way  to  think  about  gamma  is, what's  the  energy  I  need  to  put  in  to increase  my  area  by  some  amount. And  the  relation  then  between the  energy  and  that  area  is  gamma. So  Gamma  is  an  intensive  property. And  it  originates  from  the  fact that  you  have  molecules  that  interact,  right? It's  really  at  a  at a  small  value.  Small  size.  Yeah. Yes.  So  the  answer  to  P two  then  is  dependent. Right?  Because  of  the  D  Muse.  Okay. Great.  And  this  formula  is  called  Gibbs  Doom. So  this  is  Gibbs  Doom  is the  formula  you  just  derived  or  also, you  know  what  Paul's  group  shared  with  us, and  it  has  a  lot  of  utility, especially  if  you  do  more  intermediate or  advanced  thermal  course, you'll  see  this  formula  come  up  a  lot. Okay.  So  thank  you  for  your  participation. Good.  So  we've  talked  about, again,  these  potentials,  right? And  the  meaning  of  them  and how  we  wanted  to  be  able  to  have energy  potentials  that  depended on  things  that  we  could  measure,  done. And  then  we  introduced a  new  concept  from  the  Gibbs  Free  Energy, which  was  this  chemical  potential. And  but  then  we didn't  know  how  to  measure  that  either. And  so  you  developed  this  formula. Excuse  me,  such  that  you  could relate  the  changes  in  this, which  is  a  useful  thing. Again.  It's  like  the  sum  of  forces, but  in  chemistry  to  changes, again,  things  that  are  measurable,  right? Cool. Yeah.  And  again,  you  know, we  did  that  whole  part  where  we  again, postulated  that  the  internal  energy depends  on  the  entropy, the  volume  and  the  moles  numbers. And  those  are  the  extensive  parameters, and  then,  you  know, the  intensive  ones  are basically  partial  derivatives derived  concepts  from  that,  right? Okay.  So  continuing  with  the  day, just  basically  getting  all  the  math out  of  the  way  right  now. So  we  looked  at  the  first  derivatives,  right? So  we  took,  you  know,  the  derivative of  U  with  respect  to  S, and  we  got  temperature. We  took  you  with  respect to  V,  and  we  got  pressure. But,  you  know,  you  can  also  just keep  taking  derivatives,  right? And  it  turns  out that  these  things  are  going  to have  relationships,  right? And  I'll  explain  why.  All  right? So  if  you  take  You  know, if  I  take  D  U  D  V  DS, this  can  be  shown  to  be the  same  thing  as  DS,  DV,  right? Jackson,  am  I  right?  Am  I  wrong? Jackson  says,  Yes.  That's  right.  Okay. That  is  true. Okay?  In  this  room. We  don't  dispute  this. This  is  true.  Maybe  that's  CLC  three. I  don't  remember  how  it's  in  California, but  that's  CLC  three,  right? Yes.  And  so  if  you  go,  right? And  you  analyze  this. So,  of  course,  then  on  this  side,  right, this  is  essentially  then  going  to  be D  DV  of  DU  DS.  All  right. And  You  know,  you  know, essentially,  DUDS, is  by  definition  temperature. And  so  what  you  have  is  DT. You  know,  you  have  DT  DV. And  this  is  going  to  be  then  for constant  entropy and  mole  numbers  for  that.  All  right. So  again,  you  know,  we  start  off  with  this. We  just  say  this,  yes,  this  is  true. And  we  apply  the  DUDS  is  temperature. So  then  it's  DT  DV. And  that's  your  left  hand  side. You  can  do  it,  of  course,  for the  right  hand  side,  the  same  thing. So,  I  guess  I  should  have  a  square  here. I  don't  know  why  I  miss  a  square  here, and  then  short  what  you're  going  to  have  is a  DDS  of  DU  DV, This  is  by  definition, the  negative  of  pressure, and  so  this  term  is  just  going  to  be  equal  to the  negative  of  DP  d S.  And  then  that's  for constant  volume  and  mole  numbers  there. Okay?  So  in  the  end,  then,  right, DT  DV  is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  negative  of DP  DS,  right?  That's  the  whole  point. And  that's  kind  of interesting  because  basically  with math  here  and  claiming  that  this  is  true, you  now  have  something  non  trivial  to  say. Alright,  You're  essentially  saying here  that,  you  know, changes  in  temperature  with volume  are  going  to  be coupled  with  changes  in pressure  and  entropy  there. And  that  is  Maxwell's  relations. So  Maxwell's  relations, when  you  read  the  book, and  you  look  through  it, is  nothing  but  staying  with our  love  of  math  and derivatives  and  just doing  another  one  and  saying, shaking  and  seeing  what  falls  out.  Alright? And  it  turns  out  that  there  are some  ones  that  are  kind  of  interesting, and  we'll  explore  a  bit  more  of  those  in sort  of  the  coming  time,  right? So  And  the  word I  want  to  use  here  is  prediction. You're  basically  going  from,  you  know, we  were  kind  of  playing  I  felt like  defense  for  a  long  time  here, like,  looking  and  kind  of  digesting. And  now  with  this and  presenting  it  in  this  way, you  can  now  actually  start  to  predict  things. You  can  now  go  and  test  and see  if  any  of  this  shit  is  true,  right? To  be  frank,  right? That's  literally,  you  know,  how  it  went. They  went  in  and  they  said,  Okay,  if  this  is, you  know,  that's  Mat,  that's  true. If  this  is  true, when  I  start  to  turn  on  this  no, then  that  other  parameter  should essentially  change  with  it.  Okay? And  then  that  whole  game with  Maxwell's  is  like, what  the  hell  is  DPDS? Now,  DT  DV,  I  could  do  that. I  could  go  and  change  the  volume of  this  and  measure temperature  or  whatever  along  the  way,  right? And  it  all  comes  from these  mixed  partial  derivatives that  I  said  there,  right? Yeah.  So  again,  reminding  you  of sort  of  these  derived  concepts. And  so  these  are the  derived  concepts  from  it. And  so  you're  going  to  have  these  sort  of three  mixed  pairs  of the  second  derivatives for  those  three  constants, right,  D  U  DVDs,  DVDN,  D  SDN. With  it.  Again,  you  can  go, repeat  everything  that  I  just did  right  here,  right? So  then  this  is  going  to  be  temperature, pressure, chemical  potential,  negative  of  pressure, chemical  potential,  temperature  here. Question?  Okay.  Yes,  go  ahead,  check. The  same  Maxwell  did  all  the  Yes. Maxwell  did  everything.  Maxwell  also did  rarified  gases. He  did  that  the  surfaces. Of  course,  other  people  helped, right  and  contributed  with  it, but  yeah,  he  did  a  lot of  things  in  a  lot  of  fields.  So  yeah. And  that's  kind  of  interesting,  right? Because  if  the  three  classical traditional  areas,  mechanics, thermodynamics,  electrodynamics, he  did  like  two  out  of  the  three. I  mean,  that's  pretty  ridiculous. So  Cool,  Ridiculously,  cool. Yeah.  And  so  then  you  can  go  in,  right, so  we  swap  the  DUDS  and  all  of  those, and  we  get  those  drive  concepts. And  there  it  is,  right? So  the  DT  DV  is  DPD  S,  D  UDV, DP  DN,  D  UDS, DT,  D  N  there,  right? I  can  go  out  and  look  at  this. I'm  not  going  to sort  of  bother  you  too  much  with  this  stuff, but  again,  the  sort  of  information  to  have. Again,  you  can  like  repeat  this  then  for. We  did  this  for  for  internal  energy. You  can,  of  course,  do  this  then for  Helmholtz, if  you're  really  interested  to  know about  this  and  go  a  bit  deeper, one  of  the  best  books  that I've  ever  read  is  by  Calen, Cin  Professor  at  Penn. And  this  is  an  amazing  book that  goes  through  a  lot of  the  math  of  today the  L  gender  transformations, and  also  with  this. So  you  can  get  sort  of  the  same  You  know, with  this,  you  know, what  we've  written  now  for  internal  energy, you  can  do  the  same  things  now for  with  the  Helmholtz  function. You  can  do  the  same  thing  with  enthalpy, right? So  there's  six  more.  So  now  we  got  18. And,  of  course,  you  can  do  it  then  for  Gibbs. So  you  got  a  clean  24 parameters  with  it,  right? Yeah. Yeah.  So,  I  don't have  too  much  more  to  say  basically  with  it, except  that  at  this  point  now,  again, this  is  not  something  that  you're going  to  be  sort  of  tested  on. But  essentially,  if  you  have  a  difficult time  kind  of  remembering how  these  things  can  be  related, there's  apparently  this  device. I  forget  who  did  it. I'll  try  to  remember  for  next  time who  the  credits  given  for. But  in  short,  if  we  look  at, You  know,  the  left  hand  side  here,  the  V  S&P. This  is  essentially  like  on this  diagram,  here, you  have  the  V  S  and  in  the  P.  And the  corresponding  one  that  on  the  right  side is  a  TP  and an  S  with  it  that  are basically  for  the  constant  n.  So you  can  basically  use  the  sort  of  box  and then  swap  between  and be  able  to  write  with  it. That's  going  to  really  bother  me. Yeah,  who  wrote  that. But  anyway  is  that  sort of  a  thermodynamic  square and  can  help  then  because  again, there  was  like  24  of  these  things to  keep  in  mind,  right? So  what  are  the  ones  that  actually  matter? So  one  of  them  is  isothermal  compression. So  you  keep  something  at constant  temperature  and  mold  numbers, and  you  start  to  compress  it, and  you  want  to  see  how  things  like internal  energy  change  with  it,  right? So  for  small  changes,  changes  in  entropy. For  a  change  in  pressure, right  for  constant  temperature. So  DSDP,  for  constant  T  and  N,  right? And  then  that's  ultimately  going  to  become DVD  with  it  there,  right? So  you  can  go  in.  You  can  write  that. So  changes  in  Trop  are  no  longer  DSDPDP, but  they're  DVDT  DP,  right? Because  entrop  you're  not  measuring, but  changes  in  volume  and  temperature, that  could  probably  be  a  constant. And  indeed,  it  is, if  you  look  in  the  textbook, you'll  see  something  like Alpha  that's  written  in  it, and  that's  a  coefficient  then a  thermal  expansion. There,  right?  So  again, a  measurable  thing  that  you  could  put  into the  formula  that  we  described  before. Alright.  And  again,  you're  relating  like entropy  changes  to  something  that's measurable,  and  that's  it. Okay?  I'm  not  going  to  belabor  it  anymore. I  feel  exhausted  up here  going  through  all  of  it. But  again,  the  summary of  today  is  that,  you  know, you  postulate  that  okay, internal  energy  depends on  temperature  and  volume. Things  that  we  can't  really  measure. You  take  a  differential  of  that. You  can  get  things  like  temperature  and pressure  that  drop  out,  great. And  now  we  create  potentials out  of  that  where  those  changes can  be  measured  and  be  useful. One,  two,  we  define chemical  potential.  All  right? That's  going  to  be,  again, sort  of  the  chemistry  equivalent of  sum  of  forces  is  zero, telling  you  how  things  are  moving. Out  of  that,  we  can relate  changes  in  that  to, again,  changes  in  measurable things  who  gives  Dm. And  the  final  thing  is  just,  again, taking  advantage  of  math  here. That  the  second  derivatives, partial  derivatives  of  internal  energy, swap  in  the  order  of  them  can  lead  to sort  of  non  trivial  relations,  okay? So  with  that,  I'm  going  to close  it.  With  a  minute  to  spare. If  you  have  any  questions,  please  come  up. Thank  you.  And  check B  courses  for  office  hours.
