Okay,  I  got  310.  I'm  gonna  get  started. Much  like  Winter, mid  term  two  is  coming.  All  right? Most  thing  I'm  going  to point  out  to  you  is  that  X or  G  is  not  on  midterm  two. And  so  if  you  see  how  Module  two  looks  like, it's  essentially  three  things  that  are  there. So  if  the  homeworks,  pap, I  get  a  bunch  of  extended office  hours  and  stuff. So  if  none  of  those  work, just  shoot  me  a  message. Probably  have  to  jump  on  Zoom,  Mx. Is  m.  Class.  Yeah. So  we're  doing  in  class. We're  going  to  do  this  in  class. Like,  I'm  an  experimentalist. Like  any  good  experimentalist. You  have  a  control.  So  this  is  a  control. No,  I'm  kidding.  The  point  is  that  this is  a  traditional  in  class  exam. So  it'll  be  three  problems. If  you  want  to  gauge  the  types  of  problems, well  I  just  said you're  testing  on  three  things, so  three  problems,  you  can  read between  the  lines  on  that. There's  a  practice  term that's  one  on  B  courses. Have  a  look  at  that.  The  difficulty  level is  intentionally  higher  on  that. There.  Yeah,  but  we're  going  to  do  it. Don't  expect  to  have  to  do really  difficult  property  table  lookups. Don't  expect  interpolation, expect  like,  Hey,  here's  table, I  don't  know,  A  one  through what  are  the  ones  you're  using  regularly? Four,  seven,  whatever. So,  these  things  will  be  on  one  page. You  tear  it  out,  you  have  it,  but  yeah. Other  questions?  You  can also  see  the  details on  what's  allowed,  right? So  a  programmable non  communicating  calculator, you  can  work  with  two  pages,  front  and  back. So  letter  sized  sheets, right?  Not  a  four  here. Letter  sized  front  and  two  pages, front  and  back  each  there. Okay?  And  closed  book. All  right.  If  you  want  open  book,  it's  fine, but  I'm  going  to  write a  real  hard  exam  for  an  open  book,  right? Going  once.  Going  twice. Okay,  I  think  most  details  are on  that,  right?  Great. So  today,  we  have a  lot  of  ground  to  cover  today. And  we're  going  to  switch a  little  bit  of  gears. So  we'll  finish  off with  the  refrigeration  stuff  we've  done. You're  going  to  finish off  with  that  on  Wednesday with  doctor  Regula  gata. But  today,  I'm  going  to  tell  you the  meaning  of  hop  and  tell you  about  a  couple  of  other  sort  of related  potentials, and  then  we're  going  to enter  into  some  relations. So  we'll  talk  a  bit  about  what  are called  Maxwell's  relations. So  the  only  regret  I  had my  undergraduate  career  of  thermo, one  class  I  missed and  all  the  time  was  Maxwell. So  hopefully,  I  do  a  good  job  today. All  right.  So  again, so  we  talked  about  tp.  All  right. So  enthalp  we  looked at  this  from  the  problem  of  the flow  work,  you  know, and  we  were  using  that  to  extract this  PV  out  of the  work  transfer  so that  the  work  would  just  be, shaft  work,  you  know,  useful  work  with  it. The  definition  was  internal  energy  plus  PV. There  are  two  other  ones, right  that  are  commonly  used. So  I'll  start  with  Helmholtz  Helmholtz  was a  famous  German  physicist in  the  19th  century. And  so  Helmholtz  is  the internal  energy  minus temperature  times  entropy. We'll  get  into  a  second  why  that's  useful. And  then  there's  the  so  called Gibbs  Free  Energy  named  after the  American  engineer  physicist, Gibbs,  who  we've  talked  about  before. And  that's  the  internal  energy  plus PV  minus  temperature  and  entropy. So  we  can  go  into  a  little  bit  the  enthalp Let's  look  at  that  for  a  second,  right?  Okay. So,  we  looked  at  internal  energy,  right? And  one  thing  I'm  going  to  tell  you,  right, is  that  the  internal  energy, and  when  we  talked  about  this,  right, we  only  had  to  describe  two  things  to  know complete  information,  right  about  the  state. So  it  turns  out  that  for  internal  energy, if  you  want  to  have sort  of  that  complete  knowledge, right  with  the  entropy  and  the  volume. This  U,  when  I  write  U  is  equal  to  this, for  your  textbooks, and  this  is  not  in  your  book,  right? I'm  telling  you  something  that people  don't  teach  you,  right? So  pay  attention,  right? So  This  is  what's called  the  fundamental  equation. So  I'm  telling  you  here  that internal  energy  here  depends on  for  a  simple  system  and tripan  volume.  All  right. And  things  like  temperature and  pressure  are  derived  concepts. So  if  I  take  the  differential  of  this,  right, partial  U  partial  S  for  constant  V,  D  S, partial  U  partial  V, constant  S  for  D  V,  right? That  DU  DSU  DUD  S for  constant  V  is the  definition  of  temperature,  right? This  is  actually  what That  is  temperature,  right? And  pressure  is  the  negative of  DUDV  for  constant  entropy. The  reason  why  it's  negative is  because  pressure,  right, we  call  it  positive because  we  interacted  with  pressure long  before  people wrote  thermodynamics  textbooks,  okay? So  that's  the  definition.  But  these  things, these  intensive  properties,  right? Temperature  and  pressure  are derive  concepts  of the  extensive  state,  right? So  entropy  and  volume. These  are  extensive. What  does  extensive  mean? We'll  go  with  the  raising of  the  hands,  Jackson? Depends  on  the  Okay. Am  I  going  to  make  this  throw  or  no? Am  I  Mendoza?  Today  I  am. Okay.  That's  not  on  me. That's  not  on  me.  Alright. Alright,  so  what  you  would  like  to  do, because  the  point  is  that,  you  know, measuring  these  concepts,  right? Measuring  entropy  and  volume  are  difficult. If  I  told  you  to  measure  the  volume of  this  room,  he's  smart  kids, you  might  get,  you  know, some  rulers  and  whatever  and  figure  it  out, be  a  pain  in  the  ass,  but  you  could  do  it. If  I  told  you  to  measure  the  entropy  of this  room,  what  do  you  do  then? You  cry. You  run  away,  you  say,  I don't  like  this  class,  right? So  you  can't  measure  that's not  something  that's  easy. But  if  you  could  measure temperature,  and,  you  know, if  you  could  have complete  information from  temperature  and  pressure, boy,  that  would  be  much  easier. Alright.  Okay,  so  you  go  here, you  take  this  fundamental  equation. You  say,  look,  okay,  I'm  going to  say  k,  volume. All  right? That's  the  extensive  parameter  is  volume. The  intensive  parameter associated  with  it  is  then  pressure. You  say,  L,  I'm  just  going  to  go.  I'm  clever. I'm  going  to  say,  look,  I  don't  need  volume of  put  pressure  in  there,  and  I'm  done. And  you  say,  Okay,  good. I  go  home.  All  right. So  let's  say  I'm  postulating  that  the  curve. Let's  say  that  internal  energy  has this  kind  of  relationship  with  volume  here. I  don't  know  if  it's  wrong, but  it  sort  of  makes  sense  there  would  be a  minimum,  right  of  energy. I've  got  this  point,  right? So  I  specified  in  this  plane,  right? This  would  be  sort  of  a  constant  try  plane, right  I  specify  this  point  in  volume. The  slope  at  that  point  would be  D  UDV,  right? The  internal  energy  at  that  point would  be  here.  And  it's  great. Okay,  so  that  all  looks  good. However,  you  know,  if this  curve  was  then,  you  know, moved  because  I'm  feeling  a  bit  crazy, and  so  I  shifted  over  and I  do  the  same  thing,  and  that. And  the  point  is  that  in  taking the  derivative  of  that, you've  lost  something. What  have  you  lost? I  don't  know,  simple.  Like,  I'm  thinking, y  equals  mx  plus  b. If  I  take  the  derivative,  Yeah.  Paul? Yeah,  you  lose  what  is more  specifically  the  constant? Y  intercept.  You  lose the  y  intercept  in  that, right?  That's  the  idea. Paul,  I'm  not  that  brave. So  I'm  going  to  set  that  there  for  you. Okay.  So  that's  the  point.  So  you  lose  that. In  taking  that  derivative, right,  you've  lost  some  information. So  what  you  can  do  is  you  can  say,  Okay, what  I  will  do  for  this  line  is, I  will  define  a  bunch  of  points  in  math. They  call  this  a  locus. Jackson's  the  math  major. Right?  He  can  correct  me  if  I'm  wrong. But  essentially,  you  can  do that.  Which  is  good. This  defines  sort  of,  you  know, an  envelope  of  points  there  very  good. And  we  can  also recognize  at  the  same  time  that  we can  define  that  y  intercept, you  know  that  we  originally  had  there. So  I  can  find  this  point,  I can  define  that  slope. And  then  with  that  slope,  right, I  can  define  then  you  know  the  y intercept  on  the  y  axis. So  with  that  derivative  and  the  intercept, you  know,  now  I have  that  complete  information. Again,  I'm  calling  it  zero  H.  You can  see  hopefully  where  I'm  going  with this  So  zero  and  volume, and  then  H  as  my  y  intercept. I  can  do  that  for  all  of  those different  points  along  the  curve. Right? Each  of  them  is  then  going  to  give  me  sort  of a  different  value  of the  y  intercept  with  it,  right? Good. So,  then  the  slope then  there  is  ultimately  then  going  to be  right  the  internal  energy,  right? Minus  the  y  intercept  and  then divided  by  the  volume  that it  varies  over  right at  this  point  as  U  here,  right? That's  my  H.  So  I  go  up  that  amount, and  I  go  over  that  amount, and  that  is  now,  you know,  the  slope  of  the  line. Exactly.  So  u  minus  H  in  the  V. And  so  if  I  then  go  and I  rearrange  this,  I  say, H  is  now  u  minus  du dv  for  constanti  P  and  V,  right? So,  this  is  nothing  but  like  talc one  plus  maybe  algebra and  seventh  grade  for  you,  right? There's  a  name  for  this  process. This  is  called  Legendre  transformation, right? So  I  took  one  of the  extensive  state  variable, you  know,  or  one  of the  extensive  properties  volume. And  I've  swapped  it  now for  its  intensive  one. And  what  I've  gotten  is  that that  original  internal  energy that  I  have  is  no  longer  that. It's  H,  right,  and  that  u  is  minus then  the  DU  DVS  times  V,  right? So  you've  made  this  now,  this  energy, because  the  Y  axis  is  still  energy. So  it's  all  energy,  but  now  this  energy depends  on  the  NRP  and  the  pressure. And  of  course,  we  call  that  H,  what? Entropy.  That's  it.  That  was  an  easy  one. Easiest  two  stars  you  ever  got,  uh. Easier  than  trick  or  treat. So  here,  and  so these  ligander  transformed  functions, we  call  these  thermonemic  potentials. We've  got  entropy  like  that. Helmholtz,  right? Helmholtz  is  where  you take  the  entropy  in  volume, and  you  swap  entropy  for  temperature. So  that's  T  V.  Interestingly, this  is  the  one  that  they  use for  weather  modeling. So  there's  a  Helmholtz  potential  that defines  all  the  properties  of  water. And  my  understanding,  it  could  be  wrong, but  my  understanding  of  IAP WS  is  essentially  all  of those  properties  that  you  get  in the  end  are  some  Helmholtz  function. And  the  rest  of  it, we  basically  get  from  that. And  then  the  last  one  is  Gibbs,  right? So  Gibbs,  you  can  see  as  kind  of a  combination  of  enthal  P  and  Helmholtz. So  right  in  Helmholtz, we  swapped  V  for  P.  I  Helmholtz, we  swapped  S  for  t,  and  in  Gibbs, we  swap  S  for  T  and  V  for  P,  right? And  why  do  we  think  that,  for  example, Gibbs  might  be  an  interesting  potential? So  B  was  helpful,  right? Because  we  were  looking  at  systems where  the  volume,  right? The  change  in  the  volume  was essentially  zero  there,  right? Hemolt  is  helpful  when  you're  dealing  with energy  transfer  from  a  reservoir that's  at  constant  temperature. It's  interesting.  I  kind of  want  to  cut  the  starbt  in  half, but,  you  know,  maybe I'll  put  it  up  for  you  here. So  it's  helpful  when  you're  dealing, for  example,  with  a  chemical  reaction. You  know? So  if  you  have  something  that's  happening  at constant  temperature  and  pressure  there, and  you  want  to  analyze then  the  energy  change  over  it, that's  a  convenient  potential  to  work  with. So,  these  ones  are  kind  of,  you  know, you  choose  them  when  it  makes  your  life  a bit  a  bit  easier,  right? So,  and  for  the  point  of  simplicity, there's  other  things  that  you  can  add  in. You  know,  so  here,  we  didn't  do  moles. I  didn't  put  surface  area,  right. I  just  went  with  the  entropy  and the  volume  there,  okay? So  your  textbook,  I don't  believe  writes  this. I  personally,  again,  I  like  to  know how  things  where  they  come  from and  who  did  them  and  all  of  that. Yeah,  so  that's  what  I'm  telling  you. So  not  in  your  book,  but  I think  it's  instructive. Okay. So, now  we've  talked  about  different  potentials, and  maybe  some  of  them are  more  convenient  depending on  the  nature  of  the  process  involved, so  I  don't  know constant  temperature,  pressure  or  volume. They're  good.  The  next  thing we  would  like  to  do, and  this  is  what  you  know, so  looking  into  thermo, historically,  we're  interested  in, like,  work  heat  transfer  into  work,  right? This  is  a  lot  of  the  19th  century. After  that,  they  people  became  more interested  in  understanding spontaneous  processes. So  why  does  something  start  on  fire? Why  does  a  reaction, you  know,  proceed  that  way? You  know,  questions  along  this. And  that  got  much  more  into  chemistry. So  people  were  interested  to understand  why  does, you  know,  one,  you  know, let's  say  process  proceed spontaneously  and  the  other  doesn't. Okay?  And  so  we're  going  to  talk  a  little bit  about  that  right  now. Okay,  so  if  you  take  again, now  we  talk  about  the  Gibbs  free  energy. So  we  take  the  Gibbs  Free  energy, which  is  capital  G.  You  know,  we  can  say, okay,  for  a  single  component  system, so  it  has  a  temperature, it  has  a  pressure  it  depends  on. Let's  say  that  surface area  effects  are  important, so  we're  not  going  to  neglect it  for  now,  so  we  keep  that  in. And  then  the  number  of  moles, right,  of  that  single  component.  All  right. First  thing. For  a  single  phase  multi  component  system, we  don't  just  have  that  1  mole  number. We  have  several,  right?  We  those  moles, the  index  here  corresponds then  to  the  component  that  you  want. All  right,  H  hang  on  with  me  for  a  second. Okay. If  I,  'cause  I'm  feeling  a  bit  crazy, take  Alpha  and  I  multiply  it  by  G, this  is  going  to  be  equal, right  Alpha  times  G  Alpha then  is  the  size  of  the  system. So  what  parameters  are  going  to  get  affected, not  temperature,  not  pressure, 'cause  these  are  intensive, areas  affected,  and mol  numbers  are  affected,  right? Cause  these  are  then  extensive  parameters. They  depend  on  the  size  of  the  system,  right? So  if  I  take  this  whole  G  here. And  again,  I'm  feeling  a little  bit  more  crazy  about  it. I  say,  Okay,  I'm  not going  to  differentiate  with respect  to  Alpha  and hold  those  other  things  constant. So  what  this  will  look  like  is  you're going  to  have  the  partial  derivative  of G  with  respect  to  Alpha  A  times  A, and  so  on  and  so  forth  with  it. If  you  say  Alpha  is  a  real  number, for  example,  one  with  it, you're  going  to  be  able  to  write  this. So  you're  going  to  say  that  the  Gibbs energy  is  the  area times  the  partial  derivative  of G  with  respect  to A,  holding  temperature  pressure, and  the  mole  number  is  constant  plus the  summation  of  your  mole  numbers, times  the  partial  derivative  of  G  with respect  to  n,  again,  for  constant  T, PA,  and  all  other  mole  numbers except  for  the  index  involved,  right? There's  one  more  step  and  then  we're  home. Okay,  that  first  one  is  the  definition of  surface  energy  on  a  Gibbs  basis, right,  DG  DA  That  should  make  sens. So  how  does  the  free  energy  change  with  area? Right?  That's  going  to  be  surface  energy. And  then  the  other  one  we  haven't  defined  it. So,  you  know,  essentially, how  does  the  free  energy  change when  I  add  a  mole  of  something  to  the  system, or  I  subtract  a  mole  of something  from  the  system. And  this  we  call  as the  chemical  potential, right,  chemical  potential. There.  One  way  that  this  is  useful. So  if  I  think,  for  example, something  like  I  don't  know. We  do  a  lot  of  stuff  with  I  don't  know, maybe  something  like  I  don't  know, a  droplet  or  some  liquid  in  a  vapor,  right? This  liquid  is  going  to  have some  chemical  potential,  right? The  vapor  is  going  to have  some  chemical  potential. And  why  this  is  helpful  is  you  can say  when  these  things are  in  equilibrium,  right? So  if  we  say,  k, they're  in  equilibrium,  right? What  could  be  helpful? You  can  basically  say  that Mu  L  is  equal  to  Mu  V,  right? I'm  not  going  to  go  any  further  than  that, but  there  is  utility. The  mechanical  what  would be  a  mechanical  equivalent  of  this? How  many  are  in  mechanics  at  the  moment? You  all  were  telling  me that  you  had  an  exam  that  hurt. Okay.  Maybe  you  had  amnesia  about  it. So  that's  chemical  equilibrium. What's  a  mechanical  equilibrium? Yeah,  sum  of  forces  is  zero,  right? So  that's  like  your  chemical version  of  that,  right? Mechanical  equilibrium,  which  would based  on  pressures  that  are  there. And  you  can  also  have  that. And  with  those  two  conditions, you  can  do  a  lot,  right? Okay.  Great. Yeah. And  so  for  the  single  component, the  molar  Gibbs  function  is  equal  to the  chemical  potential  there, just  giving  you  this  as  some  information. And  you  can  go  on  and  right  now, I've  only  defined  it  for  the  Gibbs  potential, but  you  can  do  this  also  for  the  other  ones. So  again,  we  said  DG  DN. It  can  be  D  UDN, D  HDN,  D  FDN,  there. And  again,  it  can  tell  you  I  don't  know. I  can  tell  you  about  equilibrium, but  it  can  also  tell  you  about a  tendency  to  react. So  how  do  you  think the  chemical  potential  would  change? So  if  I  said,  this  is  state  one, Mu  of  one,  I  don't  know,  state  one. And  then  this  is  a  chemical  potential  at state  two  of  a  process. What  would  the  difference  need  to  be for  a  process  to  be  spontaneous  there? Pietro.  Say  it  one  more  time. The  difference  with  greater than  what  is  greater. Simpler  than  this,  simpler  than  this. So  the  analogy  I  would  have  to draw  on  is  what  direction  does  heat  flow? What  tells  you  the  direction  that heat  transfer  processes go?  High  to  low,  right? Yeah.  So  that's  it,  right? I  still  don't  feel  brave  enough  there. Alright.  So  that's  it,  right? So  basically,  this  will  tell, you  know,  actually,  it's  the  other  way. Sorry.  I'm  getting  a  little. You  know, basically  the  chemical  potential then  of  your  final  state, if  it's  less  than  the  chemical potential  of  your  initial  state, you  can  expect  that  that  process is  spontaneous,  okay? Alright?  Cool. And  I  tell  you  about  the  react  with substances  transform  into  another  state, right? So  that  could  be  something  like a  phase  transformation. If  you  wanted  to  predict  if  you  know, for  example,  something  was  going  to solidify  or  vaporize  there. Of  course,  we  could  look at  temperatures  and  say,  Okay, that's  above  or  below  a  saturation  point, but  you  can  also  use  chemical potentials  for  that,  right? And  also  migrate. So  migrate  might  be  what  diffuse, move,  you  know,  things  like  that,  right? Okay. So  now  we're  going  to  go  in, and  we're  going  to use  some  of  this  so  we have  now  defined  this  quantity,  that's  good. The  next  thing  I  want  to  do  though with  thermal  properties  is  that  it's  helpful not  only  to  be  able  to measure  things  like  T  and P  and  to  know  how that  affects  the  energy  of  it, but  it's  sometimes  also  helpful. So,  for  example,  I  want  to  work with  something  like  chemical  potential, but  that's  also  a  difficult quantity  to  measure. And  so  it's  helpful  to  be able  to  relate  things  like  this, which  are  the  intensive  properties to  other  intensive properties  that  we  measure. More  specifically,  changes  in  a  process  here, in  this  value  to  changes  in the  other  measurable  quantities,  right? And  so  that's  the  journey  we're  going to  go  down  for the  next  couple  of  slides,  right? And  then  we'll  do a  little  interactive  thing  to see  if  you  Yeah, if  this  is  moved into  your  brain  or  not,  right? So  we  can  take  this  definition of  the  Gibbs  free  energy. You  can  take  the  total  differential. So  what  does  that  look  DG,  right? Gamma  DA,  A  D  gamma, Mu  DN  N  D  Mu. Good. That's  nothing,  but  again,  Calc  one  there. Um  We  can  now  look  back,  right? So  that's  from  our  equation.  There. We  can  also  recall,  right,  that,  you  know, G  is  a  T  and P.  So  if  I  take  the  differential  of  that, the  full  one,  what's  that  going  to  be? It's  going  to  be  D  G,  D  P, right  for  constant  T  A, and  n,  so  temperature  area,  and  n, you  know,  DP  plus  DG,  you  know, DT  for  constant  P  A, and,  you  know,  DT, and  so  on  and  so  forth  there,  right? This  is  the  definition  of  I'm  sorry, this  is  the  definition  of a  volume  here,  right? This  is  your  definition  of  entropy, negative  of entropy  there  and  so  on  and  so  forth. So  again,  remembering now  that  we  have  a  function that's  depending  only on  these  intensive  properties, it's  the  extensive  ones, which  are  then  the  derived  concepts  with  it. We  have  this  as  another  way  to  define  it. Okay,  so  you  have  this  DG, right,  which  we  have,  you  know,  have  this  DG. And  now  I  want  to  ask  a  simple  question, which  is, you're  given  these  two  differentials. And  I  want  to  know,  Can  you  relate  changes  in the  chemical  potential  to changes  of  other  variables? And  two  are  the  intensive  properties. So  temperature,  pressure,  surface  energy, are  these  things  that  are  independent, or  do  they  depend  on  each  other? Okay?  Does  that  make  sense? Questions  about  this  activity? I  don't  know. I  got  three  star  bus  to  go,  okay? Alright.  So,  I  would  say,  take  5  minutes. You  know,  again,  seriously  talk  with the  neighbor  through  it. There's  no  poll  for  this. I'm  just  going  to  call  randomly  on  it. And  then  we'll  be  done then  with  the  property  relations, and  we  can  get  on  with  Maxwell's,  okay? Good.  So  5  minutes  and  then  we'll  talk. Answer  to  P  two  then  is  dependent. Right?  Because  of  the  D  Muse. Okay.  Great. And  this  formula  is  called  Gibbs  Doom. So  this  is  Gibbs  Doom  is the  formula  you  just  derived  or  also, you  know  what  Paul's  group  shared  with  us, and  it  has  a  lot  of  utility, especially  if  you  do, more  intermediate  or  advanced  thermal  course, you'll  see  this  formula  come  up  at  the. Okay.  So  thank  you  for  your  participation. Good.  So  we've  talked  about, again,  these  potentials,  right? And  the  meaning  of  them  and how  we  wanted  to  be  able  to  have energy  potentials  that  depended on  things  that  we  could  measure,  done. And  then  we  introduced a  new  concept  from  the  Gibbs  Free  Energy, which  was  this  chemical  potential. And  but  then  we didn't  know  how  to  measure  that  either. And  so  you  developed  this  formula. Excuse  me,  such  that  you  could relate  the  changes  in  this, which  is  a  useful  thing. Again.  It's  like  the  sum  of  forces, but  in  chemistry  to  changes, again,  things  that  are  measurable,  right? Cool. Yeah.  And  again,  who,  you  know, we  did  that  whole  part  where  we  again, postulated  that  the  internal  energy depends  on  the  entropy, the  volume  and  the  moles  numbers. And  those  are  the  extensive  parameters. And  then,  you  know,  the  intensive  ones are  basically partial  derivatives  derived concepts  from  that,  right? Okay.  So  continuing  with  the  day, just  basically  getting  all  the  math out  of  the  way  right  now. So  we  looked  at  the  first  derivatives,  right? So  we  took,  you  know,  the  derivative of  with  respect  to  S, and  we  got  temperature. We  took  with  respect to  V,  and  we  got  pressure. But,  you  know,  you  can  also  just keep  taking  derivatives,  right? And  it  turns  out that  these  things  are  going  to have  relationships,  right? And  I'll  explain  why,  right? So,  if  you  take  You  know, if  I  take  D  U, D  V  DS,  this  can be  shown  to  be  the  same  thing as  DS,  DV,  right? Jackson,  am  I  right?  Am  I  wrong? Jackson  says,  Yes.  That's  right. Okay.  That  is  true. Okay?  In  this  room. We  don't  dispute  this. This  is  true.  Maybe  that's  CLC  three. I  don't  remember  how  it's  in  California, but  that's  LC  three,  right?  Yes. And  so  if  you  go,  right? And  you  analyze  this. So,  of  course,  then  on  this  side,  right, this  is  essentially  then  going  to  be D  DV  of  D  U  D. All  right. And  You  know,  you  know, essentially,  DUDS, is  by  definition  temperature. And  so  what  you  have  is  DT. You  know,  you  have  DTV, and  this  is  going  to  be  then  for constant  entropy  and mole  numbers  for  that.  All  right. So  again,  you  know,  we  start  off  with  this. We  just  say  this,  yes,  this  is  true. And  we  apply  the  DUDS  is  temperature. So  then  it's  DT  DV. And  that's  your  left  hand  side. You  can  do  it,  of  course,  for the  right  hand  side,  the  same  thing. So,  I  guess  I  should  have  a  square  here. I  don't  know  why  I  miss  a  square  here, and  then  short  what  you're  going  to  have  is a  DDS  of  DU  DV, This  is  by  definition, the  negative  of  pressure, and  so  this  term  is  just  going  to  be  equal  to the  negative  of  DP  D  S, and  then  that's  for  constant  volume and  mole  numbers  there.  Okay? So  in  the  end,  then,  right, DT  DV  is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  negative  of DP  DS,  right?  That's  the  whole  point. And  that's  kind  of interesting  because  basically  with math  here  and  claiming  that  this  is  true, you  now  have  something  non  trivial  to  say. Alright,  you're  essentially  saying here  that  you  know, changes  in  temperature  with volume  are  going  to  be coupled  with  changes  in pressure  and  entropy  there. And  that  is  Maxwell's  relations. So  Maxwell's  relations, when  you  read  the  book and  you  look  through  it, is  nothing  but  staying  with  our  love of  math  and  derivatives and  just  doing  another  one  and  saying, shaking  and  seeing  what  falls  out.  Alright? And  it  turns  out  that  there  are some  ones  that  are  kind  of  interesting, and  we'll  explore  a  bit  more of  those  in  sort  of the  coming,  time,  right? So  And  the  word I  want  to  use  here  is  prediction. You're  basically  going  from,  you  know, we  were  kind  of  playing  I  felt like  defense  for  a  long  time  here, like,  looking  and  kind  of  digesting. And  now  with  this and  presenting  it  in  this  way, you  can  now  actually  start  to  predict  things. You  can  now  go  and  test and  see  if  any  of  this  shit  is  true, right?  To  be  frank,  right? That's  literally,  you  know,  how  it  went. They  went  in  and  they  said,  Okay,  if this  is,  you  know,  that's  Mt. That's  true.  If  this  is  true, when  I  start  to  turn  on  this  no, then  that  other  parameter  should essentially  change  with  it. Okay? And  then  that  whole  game with  Maxwell's  is  like, what  the  hell  is  DPDS. Now,  DT  DV,  I  could  do  that. I  could  go  and  change  the  volume of  this  and  measure temperature  or  whatever  along  the  way,  right? And  that  all  comes  from these  mixed  partial  derivatives that  I  said  there,  right? Yeah. So  again,  reminding  you  of sort  of  these  derived  concepts. And  so  these  are the  derived  concepts  from  it. And  so  you're  going  to  have  these  sort  of three  mixed  pairs  of the  second  derivatives for  those  three  constants, right,  DU  DVDs,  DVDN, D  SDN  with  it. Again,  you  can  go,  repeat  everything that  I  just  did  right  here,  right? So  then  this  is  going to  be  temperature,  pressure, chemical  potential,  negative  of  pressure, chemical  potential,  temperature  here. Question?  Okay.  Yes,  go  ahead,  check. The  same  Maxwell  did  all  the  Yes. Maxwell  did  everything.  Maxwell  also did  rarified  gases. He  did  that  the  surfaces. Of  course,  other  people  helped, right  and  contributed  with  it, but  yeah,  he  did  a  lot of  things  in  a  lot  of  fields.  So  yeah. And  that's  kind  of  interesting,  right? Because  if  the  three  classical traditional  areas,  mechanics, thermodynamics,  electrodynamics,  he  did, like  two  out  of  the  three. I  mean,  that's  pretty  ridiculous. So  Cool,  Ridiculously  cool. Yeah.  And  so  then  you  can  go  in  right so  we  swap  the  DUDS  and  all  of  those, and  we  get  those  drive  concepts. And  there  it  is,  right? So  the  DT  DV  is  DPD  S, D  UDV,  DPD  N,  D  UDS, DT,  D  N  there,  right? Go  out  and  look  at  this. I'm  not  going  to  sort  of bother  you  too  much  with  this  stuff, but  again,  sort  of  information  to  have. Again,  you  can  repeat  this  then  for? We  did  this  for  for  internal  energy. You  can  of  course  do  this  then  for  Helmholtz. If  you're  really  interested  to know  about  this  and  go  a  bit  deeper, one  of  the  best  books  that  I've  ever  read is  by  Calen  Calen  Professor  at  Penn. And  this  is  an  amazing  book  that  goes  through a  lot  of  the  math  of  today the  Legend  transformations, and  also  with  this. So  you  can  get  sort  of  the  same  with  this, you  know,  what  we've  written now  for  internal  energy, you  can  do  the  same  things  now for  the  Helmholtz  function. You  can  do  the  same  thing  with  enthalpy, right? So  there's  six  more. So  now  we  got  18.  And  of  course, you  can  do  it  then  for  Gibbs. You  got  a  clean  24  parameters  with  it,  right? Yeah.  Yeah. So,  I  don't  have too  much  more  to  say  basically  with  it, except  that  at  this  point  now,  again, this  is  not  something  that  you're going  to  be  sort  of  tested  on. But  essentially,  if  you  have  a difficult  time  kind  of  remembering how  these  things  can  be  related. There's  apparently  this  device. I  forget  who  did  it. I'll  try  to  remember  for  next  time who  the  credits  given  for. But  in  short,  if  we  look  at  You  know, the  left  hand  side  here,  the  V  S&P. This  is  essentially  like  on  this  diagram, here  you  have  the  V  S  and  the  P.  And the  corresponding  one  that  on  the  right  side is  a  TP  and  an  S with  it  that  are  basically  for  the constant  n.  So  you  can basically  use  the  sort  of  box  and  then  swap between  and  be  able  to  write with  it.  That's  going  to  really  bother  me. Yeah,  who  wrote  that. But  anyway  is  that  sort of  a  thermodynamic  square and  can  help  then  because  again, there  was  like  24  of  these  things to  keep  in  mind,  right? So  what  are  the  ones  that  actually  matter? So  one  of  them  is  isothermal  compression. So  you  keep  something  at constant  temperature  and  mold  numbers, and  you  start  to  compress  it, and  you  want  to  see  how  things  like internal  energy  change  with  it,  right? So  for  small  changes  changes  in  entropy. For  a  change  in  pressure, right  for  constant  temperature. So  DSDP,  for  constant  T  and  N,  right? And  then  that's  ultimately  going  to  become DVD  with  it  there, right?  So  you  can  go  in. You  can  write  that.  So  changes  in entropy  are  no  longer  DSDPDP, but  they're  DVDT  DP,  right? Because  entropy  you're  not  measuring, but  changes  in  volume  and  temperature, that  could  probably  be  a  a  constant. And  indeed,  it  is. If  you  look  in  the  textbook, you'll  see  something  like Alpha  that's  written  in  it, and  that's  a  coefficient  then a  thermal  expansion  there,  right? So  again, a  measurable  thing  that  you  could  put into  the  formula  that  we  described  before. Alright.  And  again,  you're  relating  like entropy  changes  to  something  that's measurable,  and  that's  it. Okay,  I'm  not  going  to  belabor  it  anymore. I  feel  exhausted  up here  going  through  all  of  it. But  again,  the  summary of  today  is  that,  you  know, you  postulate  that,  okay, internal  energy  depends on  temperature  and  volume. Things  that  we  can't  really  measure. You  take  a  differential  of  that. You  can  get  things  like  temperature  and pressure  that  drop  out,  great. And  now  we  create  potentials out  of  that  where  those  changes can  be  measured  and  be  useful. One,  two,  we  define chemical  potential.  All  right? That's  going  to  be,  again, sort  of  the  chemistry  equivalent of  sum  of  forces  is  zero, telling  you  how  things  are  moving. Out  of  that,  we  can relate  changes  in  that  to, again, changes  in  measurable  things  who  gives  Dm. And  the  final  thing  is  just  again, taking  advantage  of  math  here. That  the  second  derivatives, partial  derivatives  of  internal  energy, swap  and  the  order  of  them  can  lead  to sort  of  non  trivial  relations,  okay? So  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. With  a  minute  to  spare. If  you  have  any  questions, please  come  up.  Thank  you.
