Now  we're  going.  Hello.  I  got  a  Sure. Is  there  there's  like a  video  I  don't  know  if  I  have  a  video. I  have  the  stuff  uploaded, the  PDFs  that  I  uploaded. I  did  them  at  like  11  at  night, the  one  night  there. The  trouble  is  that  for  videos  that I  upload,  I  have  to  get  them  captioned. So  before  I  used  to throw  everything  to  YouTube, but  now  we  have  laws,  which  are  good, but  they're  more  challenging, and  so  I  have  to  be  kind  of  selective about  what  I  record  and  what  I  put  online. Is  there  a  specific  thing I  could  maybe  help  you  with, for  example,  maybe  after  class  today? Yeah,  I  was  just  the  last  call. Okay.  So  let's  do  this. Do  you  have  time  after  this  or  no, you  have  to  go  to  another  class. Let's  do  this. Let's  take  the  five  or  10  minutes after  class.  Come  up  here. There  is  no  class  after  this, and  I'm  happy  to try  to  work  out  something on  the  board  if  it's  helpful. And  maybe  we  can  take  a  picture of  that  solution  and  also  upload it  so  that  others  can  have  the  benefit of  that.  Okay.  All  right. Let's  do  that.  Your  name  again  Rym. I'll  get  it  eventually. Like  Luka  Italy.  I'll  think  like  that  now. Alright.  That's  great.  It's  a  beautiful  town. Famous  old  medieval  wall that's  still  there.  It's  awesome. Awesome.  All  right. Next.  So  calculators  work on  the  I'm  guessing  we're  using  the  te  table. We're  going  to  get  lacky  numbers. So  what  are  we  used  to. So  I  think  I'm  going  to try  to  walk  through  this  the  best  that  I  can. My  understanding  is  that  you  have  a  computer there  at  the  computer  based  testing  facility. The  easiest  thing  that  I  know  is  that every  problem there  where  you  would  need  that, you  have  the  steam  tables, the  Jupiter  notebook  that  you  can  open. Yeah,  but  I  already  even  have  that  done. I  have  I  have  the  short  text of  all  the  conversions and  stuff  that  you  need  to  do  there. So  let  me  look  at  calculator. He  hates. Okay. Yeah,  so  that's  the long  and  the  short  of  it  is  that that's  that's  how  we  do  that. Let  me  just  drive. I'm  listening.  1  second. I'm  sorry,  guys,  'cause  I  got to  get  this  ready. D That's  that. Then  the  other  thing  is Okay.  Other  question? Working  out  scratch  paper, you're  going  to  have  a  booklet,  like you've  had  for  every  homework, that  kind  of  PDF  booklet. There's  a  printed  version  of  it. And  on  every  three  pages, you'll  see  at  the  top,  like  problem  A, B,  whatever  there. And  then  you  just  show  your  work  starting below  each  A  B  and  C.  Yeah. Okay.  Hilarious  with  no  name? Did  they  even  write  a  name? You  could  do  it  yourself,  you  know? How  do  you  feel  about  that? Okay,  I'm  going  to  get  started. We  got  some  ground  to  cover  today. First,  I'm  going  to  start  with some  quite  common  questions that  have  come  up  for  the  mid  term. So  the  first  one  is,  can  I bring  my  own  calculator  to  the  CBTF? My  understanding  of  the  CBTF is  that  that's  a  no,  right? But  because  it's  a  computer, my  working  assumption  is that  there's  a  calculator  with  it. If  there's  not,  which  again, check  with  the  student  page  and  see. I  believe  there  is  otherwise,  you  know, if  you  go  every  problem where  you  need  to  do  some  sort of  calculations  has  an  open work  space  button  like  this  on  it, you  go,  you  click  on  it, you  run,  right,  each  of  these  steps  here. And  yeah,  I'd  have  to  modify  it because  I  didn't  put  this  in  Oh, I  made  changes  to  this  problem  here, so  that's  with  this. Anyways,  the  take  home  message with  this  is  that  you would  be  able  to  run  that, it  would  be  functioning,  and  you  can see  here  how  to  do  calculations. This  is  equal  to  this  minus  that  and  print. I  think  that  that  should  be sufficiently  fine, but  I  will  look  today  on the  CBTF  website  to understand  the  calculator  question. When  it  comes  to  the  cheat  sheet, you  would  all  have  had  access to  Homework  four  and  five. On  the  main  pages  there, You  see  this  thing  with  the  formula  sheet. So  you  go  here,  you  click  on  that. That's  what  the  formula  sheet  looks  like. This  button  will  be available  on  every  single  problem. So  every  problem  that  you open  up  the  assessment, you  would  see  formula  sheet  that's  there. For  those  that  have  worked  with Manual  tables  from  the  book, every  single  problem  where  you might  need  the  property  tables. This  link  will  also  be  available  there. You  click  it,  and  it's  exactly  what  you would  see  in  the  book, and  you  and  you  can  dive  in. And  then  the  other  very important  thing  to  note  is  that  you  will  be given  handed from  the  proctors  an  answer  booklet, which  will  look  something  like  this, a  version  of  this. And  the  only  difference is  that  sort  of every  three  pages  at  the  top  here, we'll  say  problem  A  or  B,  or  whatever. So  you  write  problem  A  below, your  notes  below  problem  A, then  you  go  to  problem  B,  you write  below,  and  you  do  it  like  that. What  I  do  not  want  to  do at  this  time,  though,  is, please  use  the  notebook, calculate  your  numbers, but  that's  only  for  your  own  personal  use. We  cannot  download  this  at  present. I  could  get  into  long  and  the  short  of  it, but  you  use  that  just  to calculate  property  values. Otherwise,  I  will  not  be  able  to see  what  you  write  in  this  workbook. Okay?  You  might  think  logical, Hey,  I  did  a  of  stuff  in  the  workbook. You're  totally  right. You  are  absolutely  right. And  that  would  be  amazing if  we  could  do  all  of  that. Unfortunately,  we're  rolling  this  out. This  is  the  first  time  thermos  running an  exam  at  this  facility  there. So  there  are  some  things  we need  to  work  out,  okay? Yeah.  And  maybe  keep  that  in  mind, too  when  you  do  this  assessment. Hey, I'm  doing  this  account  for  the  first  time. Okay,  good.  This  was  good. This  didn't  work.  I  love  feedback  like  that. Hey,  that  work,  Presto?  Pests,  that was  not  good.  We  need  to  do  better. Okay?  Yes,  please. Name.  Ev.  Evan.  Very  special  credit. That's  why  you  have  workbook. You're  gonna  be  given a  physical  sheet  like  this. You're  gonna  be  given  ten  pages, five  pages  front  and  back,  and  you're  gonna write  out  whatever  you  need  to  on  there. Okay?  And  then  I'm  gonna  collect  that, and  then  we  manually  grade  on  those 150  whatever  assessments.  Next  question. Pietro.  I  had some  issues  using  the  square  root. Yeah,  because  you  have  to  import a  math  function,  you  know,  there,  right? The  other  way  to  do  this  is  that  you  can do  right  dot,  you  know,  this. You  know,  so  this  to the  Astrogast  0.5  is  a  square  root  within  it. If  you  think  that's  helpful  for  you, I'm  happy  to  put  that  as  a  command on  the  template  there. But  you  need  to  e  mail  me. Okay,  next  question.  Yes,  please. Yes.  Specifically  what? Sure. I  could  do  it  today. I'm  going  to  work  out  a  problem  today. Maybe  this  is  a  good  opportunity  to  then go  with  good  detail about  what  we  do  with  that. Is  that  fine  for  you?  Okay.  Next  question. Yes,  please.  Name. What,  say  it  again.  T  and  P, it's  just  going  to  be  state,  right? So  if  I  have  temperature  and  a  pressure, what  IAP  WS  is  is  going  to compute  all  of the  properties  at  that  condition. The  problem  is  that  what's the  problem  with  T&P  though? If  you're  in  the  saturated  region, it  doesn't  know  if  it's  a  liquid  or  a  vapor. So  what  it's  going  to  do  is  it's  going  to default  to  either  a  liquid  or  a  vapor. I'm  not  sure  which  one.  Alright.  And  then all  of  the  properties  are going  to  be  calculated  with  that. But  superheated  or  liquid  region, it's  gonna  work  beautifully. Yeah. Otherwise,  if  you're  in the  mixed  region,  right, you  have  to  do  like temperature  and  quality,  you  know, pressure  and  quality,  things  like  that. Correct.  Yes.  Yes.  Correct.  Yes,  yes,  yes. Yes.  Yeah,  that's  well  stated. Sorry.  Other  question?  Good. Okay.  Emilia.  Say  it one  more  time.  Yes. So  the  easiest  way  to  do that  is  if  you  type  in the  temperature  and  X equals  to  zero  or  any  value  0-1, let's  say  for,  you  know,  water is  equal  to  this, then  water  dot  P  is then  going  to  be the  saturation  pressure,  right? Or  vice  versa.  I  could  put  in here  P  here,  right? And  then  T  is  then my  saturation  temperature  there. Why?  Because  the  temperature doesn't  change  across  that. So  you  just  have  to  put  in  a  pressure  or a  temperature  in  some  value of  the  quality,  and, you  know,  the  corresponding  temperature or  vice  versa  pressure is  then  the  saturated  one. So  my  question  to  you  is  this. Does  the  saturation  pressure  change? You  know,  if  I  look  at,  for  example, the  PV  diagram  here, what's  the  slope  of  the  line for  the  saturation  pressure  within  it? So,  this  is  a  quality of  zero,  quality  of  one. Does  the  pressure  vary?  No,  and it's  the  same  with  temperature,  ok? Yes.  He  a  CVC.  I  believe  they  do. So  I  believe  it's dot  CP  gives  you  with  the  IP  WS. I  believe  St  CP  gives  you  the  would  give you  the  specific  heats  also  for  that  class. But  don't  quote  me  yet.  I  think it's  in  the  literature  online, but  I  think  that  can  be gotten  like  that.  And  CV. Yes,  please.  Alexander. So  the  template  is  unchanged. So  this  is  what  I  also  said  before. So  if  you  look  at this  workbook  as  it  is  here, this  is  obviously  a  slightly  modified  one because  I've  declared  the  pressure  and entropy  commands. But  this  mp  command,  this  command, the  temperature  pressure, quality  inputs  are  here. Here's  how  you  do  the  class. I  have  a  bunch  of  the  commented ones  of  temperature,  pressure, temperature  quality,  pressure, enthalpy  pressure,  quality. Pressure,  in  this  case,  pressure  entropy, but  that  wouldn't  be  on  that  template, and  then  how  we  call  the  variables  there. So  all  these  commands  are  already in  the  workbooks  that  are  there, especially  for  Homework  four,  right, as  well  as  the  print  commands, as  well  as  the  unit  conversion and  the  printing  there. So  all  of  that  is  there. If,  for  example,  in the  homeworks  that  you've  done, you  feel  that  you  need, like  another  command  with that  to  do  it  regularly, I  would  really  welcome  that,  but,  like, no  later  than  like  midnight  tonight  for  that. Alright?  So  this  is  what's  uploaded,  right? So  this  is  exactly  the  workbook that's  called  when  you open  when  you  open  the  workbook  button  here. And  I'm  sorry  if  I  if I'm  like  totally  answering  it  in  a  wrong  way. But  if  you  go  and  you  open  your  you  know, let's  say,  the  water  problem  here, I'll  close  this  workspace. But  I  come  here  and  I  open  this  workspace. The  workbook  one  Mississippi, two  Mississippi. That's  available,  and  you  open  is this  Jupiter  notebook  here,  right? So  this  This  is what  specific  heat  at  constant  pressure. CP.  Yeah.  So  I  don't  have  the  command  for  it. If  you  want  that  command,  I  need  an  e  mail. So  send  me  an  e  mail and  I'm  happy  to  code  that  and have  it  as  an  example.  Yes,  please. Go  ahead. So  I  could  give  you 150  pages  of the  Hemolz  function  for  how  to  do  it. The  other  thing  I  could do  is  I  could  give  you the  silverware  and  let  you  go. And  what  I'm  giving  you  here  is basically  the, you  know,  sort  of  the silver  Men  plots,  right? The  French  say,  you  know,  everything in  place.  So  this  is  all  here. You  just  go  and  eliminate commands  comment  commands in  Python  notation,  right? You  just  Comment  that out  and  then  and  you  run,  okay? Oh  yeah,  I'm  gonna  take  two  more, and  then  I  got  to  go.  Alright? You  don't. You  basically  write  it. You're  going  to  write  it  in. You're  going  to  basically  be  given ten  pages  of  paper, and  you're  going  to  write  ten  pages  on paper  or  not  ten  pages,  like  a  page. In  the  back.  Yes. E  mail.  Tend  me  e  mail  with  that  request, and  I'm  hap  to  oblige  you.  Yes,  please. I  mean,  is  my  expectation that  this  is  here  and  it's  in  it,  the  273.15? If  there's  another  unit  conversion that's  unclear,  send  me  an  e  mail, and  I'll  take  it  up with  the  team  and  whether  or  not  we  think  we should  include  it  in  the  cheat  sheet  or  in the  workbook  here.  Is  that  good? Okay.  One  more  question. The  question  as  we  have  for  that  as  well. IPS  can  only  work  for  water. Therefore,  I'm  not  going  to  upload a  Jupiter  notebook  that  is handling  a  fluid  that's  other  than  water. Question  I'm  going  to  say  basically that  you  have  done most  of  your  working  fluid  with  water. So  property  table  and calculations  like  that  are For  water,  but  it  is  within my  rights  to  ask you  questions  about  an  ideal  guess. Okay?  Interpret  that  how  you  went. Alright,  I  got  a  rock  and  roll, if  there's  other  questions. I  don't  mean  to  dismiss  them, but  we  can  maybe, once  I'm  done  here,  answer  those towards  the  end  of  class,  right? So,  and  these  are  all  very  good  questions. But  the  main  mechanism  right  now  I  need from  you  is  if  I  told any  to  send  me  an  e  mail, I  need  that  e  mail  like  ASAP. Send  it  now.  Alright?  You  know, just  send  me  an  e  mail  now  with  the  request. I'll  bring  the  teach.  And  with  all of  my  teaching  staff  and  support, 'cause  I'm  gonna  tell  Thomas, you  then  to  take  care of  that  right  away,  right? Alright. So,  where  we  are  now is  we're  talking  about  a  balance,  right? So  again,  we're  staying  with  entropy, and  um  The  next  way  we  can  start  to analyze  our  systems  on  the  road  to RG  is  to  do  what's  called  an  entropy  balance. This  is  very  similar analogous  to  what  we  did  when  we  did  the, you  know,  conservation  of  energy, you  know,  analysis  of  a  system  there. We're  going  to  do  a  very  similar  thing, but  with  entropy. Again,  just  like  we  had  before, the  change  in  the  entropy  of a  control  volume  is  equal to  what  enters,  minus,  what  leaves. The  only  additional  term, which  we  don't  really  have  an  analogy  for in  in  the  energy one  because  it  can't  be  created. It's  only  transformed  is that  there  is  an  entropy. There  can  be  an  entropy  that's  generated. If  you're  asking  yourself, you  know,  how  can  that  be? Does  anyone  have  an  example  in  their  mind, where  they  think  that  they could  think  of  entropy  generation? Yes,  please. Yes.  That's  it,  right? Anything  with,  you  know, friction,  thinking  about  like a  paddle,  a  fan, Your  professor  talking  loudly  into  a  room, you  know?  That's  a  bad  joke. But  anyways,  you  have,  again, this  sort  of  difference, so  we're  going  to  do  an  example  in a  little  bit  where  I  take  you solving  this  equation  for a  heat  exchanger,  right? Exactly. And  so,  yeah,  it's  coming back  to  the  someone  with  the  friction. So  if  we  think  about,  you  know,  our  piston with  sort  of  a  paddle  in  there, we're  transferring  work  into  the  system. Alright?  Entropy  is  not transferred  with  the  work, we  transfer  work  in. But  ultimately,  entropy  is generated  because  you  know, you  start  to  move  the  fluid. You  have  that  friction  at  the  paddle. You  know,  some  heating,  that  heat is  then  transferred,  you  know, into  then  the  surrounding  fluid  there. So  you  basically  get  entropy generation  with  that,  right? Alright.  And  again, this  is  all  sort  of  textbook  stuff, but  I'm  just  reminding  you  before  we get  into  the  derivation,  right? So  we  have  the,  you  know, S  or  DS  is  equal  to  DQ  divided  by T.  If  we  have a  constant  temperature  process,  right? That  change  in  entry  P  is  equal  to the  heat  transfer  divided  by, you  know,  divided  by  the  temperature that  we  transfer  the  heat,  you  know,  from. So,  for  example,  here, we  you  know,  temperature  here, we're  transferring  the  heat  in,  you  know, so  then  we  have  this  entropy  is the  Q  divided  by  the  T  B. We  also  did  this  example right  where  we  looked  at the  TS  diagram  for  a  process, and  we  integrated  under that  temperature  curve  to  get the  entropy  transferred,  right? And  in  that  case,  there,  with  that  example, we  did  last  lecture,  the  temperature was  not  constant,  right? We  knew  the  relationship  between temperature  and  the  heat  transfer  process we  were  doing,  right? That's  the  closed  systems.  So  we  think  about a  control  volume  where we  can  bring  MS  in,  right? We've  been  working  with the  energy  analysis  of especially  M  dot  Hs,  right? So  we're  looking  at  especially  at steady  state  and  M  dot  Delta  H and  H  two  minus  and  H  one. You  do  the  same  thing  for  entropy,  right? So  you're  able  to  apply  that  same  thinking  of the  M  dot  S  instead  of  the  M  dot  H  there. So  your  fluid  can  also,  you  know, possess  possess  entropy  and  can  be  carried  in when  we  have  a  fluid  flowing  in  or  flowing out  of  it,  right? All  right?  How  does  that  look  like? So  in  a  typical  formula, so  a  typical  analysis, and  what  we're  going  to  go  through  today, again,  we  have  this  control  volume. We  can  transfer  heat  in  to  it. We're  going  to  have mass  transferred  in  and  out. Both  of  those  can  carry  the  entropy. So  the  change  in  entropy  of this  control  volume  is  equal to  Q  divided  by  the  T,  right? So  T  is  the  temperature then  at  the  boundary of  the  control  volume,  we  transfer  that  in. But  we  also  have  the  mass  times the  specific  entropy  of the  fluid  mass  coming  in, you  know,  minus  the  mass  times the  entropy  that  exit.  Plus, Entropy  generated.  And  again, what  we're  usually  a  lot of  times  interested  in  is  then, you  know,  rearranging  and  then  solving  for the  entropy  generation  term. This  is  an  example  where  we  run this  system  in the  rate  format  at  steady  state. So  at  steady  state,  the  rate  of entropy  generated  is  equal  to  m  dot, entropy  exiting,  minus  what  enters, minus  the  summation  of  your  Ques  in,  right? Sufficiently  confused. Cool.  Let's  do  it. Alright,  so  this  is  an  example where  we're  going  to analyze  a  heat  exchanger. Eat  exchange,  are  very  important. Let  me  pull  out  my  laptop here  for  my  tablet  with  this. And  so,  in  this,  what  we're  told  is  that  we have  a  cold  water that's  entering  in  a counter  flow  heat  exchanger. What  does  that  mean?  Counter  flow  is  common. You'll  learn  this  when  you  take your  heat  transfer  classes, but  having  a  fluid  stream  that  goes  in this  direction  and  another fluid  stream  that  goes in  the  other  direction, guarantees  that  you  have  the highest  mean  Delta  t  between  them. So  it's  the  most  efficient. If  you  think  about  maintaining  the  highness mean  Delta  t  between  the  two  streams, you're  going  to  get the  best  heat  transfer  with  it. So  we  got  cold  water  that's  coming in  here  and  exiting it  at  a  warmer  temperature. And  then  we  got  hot  water that's  coming  in  here  and  then exiting  at  a  at  a  different  state. Uh,  there. So  entering  a  85  degrees  C, and  what  we  want  to  know  is the  rate  of  heat  transfer, and  then  the  rate  of  entro  p  generation within  the  heat  exchanger, if  anyone  wants  to, you  can  click  this  link  and  then follow  along  with  some  of the  notes  that  I'll  be  writing. I'll  write  more  detailed  notes  than  with the  with  the  board  here. Alright. All  right.  So  if  we  let's define  then  with  our  states. So  first,  we  have  the  CPs. So  the  CP  of  our  cold. So  we  talk  about  the  cold with  the  cold  stream,  Alright. So  that  is  equal  to  4.18. Alright,  kilos  per  kilogram  times  Kalvin. We  speak  about  our  hot, stream  that's  entering. That  CP  is  then  4.19 kilojoules  per  kilogram.  Calvin.  All  right. We  have  that  in  this  case, of  the  cold,  we're  entering  at  T  one. So  I'm  calling  the  state  entering of  the  cold  stream  is  state  one, so  that's  ten  degrees  C.  State  two  exiting  is 70  degrees  C  M  two  is  then  equal  to  0.95. Kilograms  per  per  second. And  then  we  speak  about  the  hot  water  side, then,  if  we  say  that  inlet  is  T  three, then  we  have  T  three  is  equal to  85  degrees  C, and  then  our  m.34  34 refers  to  the  notation  of  in  and out  for  the  hot  water. That's  then  1.6  kilograms per  per  second,  right? Our  assumptions,  All  right. A  done  the  following. So  we  say  we  have  a  steady  state. All  right.  Operation. All  right,  d  dt  is. So  again,  so  our  d  d  of  the  control  volume. Let's  maybe  draw  our  control  volumes  here  to be  to  be  correct. So  if  I  focus,  for  example,  on  the  cold, if  I  focus  on  the  water  stream. All  right.  So  here's  how  that  looks  like. All  right. So  something  basically  like  that. The  zone  that  I'm  not  considering here  is  then  this  zone where  the  other  pipe  is  coming  down. So  again,  this  is  state  one, and  then  this  is  stat  State  two. We  expect  heat  to  be  transferred  in, right  into  our  control  volume. So  from  this  region, I'll  just  put  it  here just  because  it's  a  little  bit  weird. So  we  expect  to  have some  heat  transferred  into our  control  volume  there. We  have  m.12  that's  entering, and  because  we're  at  steady  state, we  have  an  m.12  exiting, right?  So  what's  the  assumption? It  means  that  D  MCV  dt  is  equal  to  zero. So  what's  entering  minus what's  exiting  is  equal  to  zero. And  then  we  apply  the  energy D  CV,  dt  is also  equal  to  zero  for  this  control  volume, right?  Good.  All  right. So  if  we  expand  our  energy  equation,  right? So  if  that's  the  case,  our  e  dot for  this  control  volume is  equal  to  E  dot  out. What's  our  e  dot  W  plus  Q  n  plus  m.12, one  plus  W  one square  divided  by  two  plus  G  one. Is  equal  to  w  plus  Q  plus  m12 plus  two  plus  W two  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  two. All  right?  We're  going  to part  of  our  assumption  then here  is  we'll  say, neglect  You  know,  KE  and  PE  terms. So  we'll  neglect  the  kinetic and  potential  energies. These  are  gone. All  right.  We  don't  have  Q  out,  right? In  this  system,  we  expect  QN. There's  no  work  transfer with  the  heat  exchanger. And  so  our  formula  then  is  Q n  is  equal  to  m12  times  H  two  minus  one. And  that's  going  to  help  us  towards  part  A, which  is  determining  the  heat  transfer. What  do  we  know? Well,  this  is  Right. Why?  Is  this  one  also  done?  No.  Okay. All  right,  so  we  know  the  m.12, it's  given  here,  0.95. We  need  to  determine  that  our  H two  and  our  H  one. So  we're  going  to  make the  assumption  then  for  this. So  it's  hot  water  coming in  at  ten  or  cold  water  coming  in  at ten  C  and  exiting  at  70. So  the  assumption  we're going  to  make  is  that  P  one  is approximately  1  atmosphere,  which  is, you  know,  I  could  write  it as  100,000  pascals  or, you  know,  one  oh  132  5  pascals  like  that. And  then  we  assume  that  there's no  pressure  drop  across  the  heat  exchanger, so  P  two  is  equal  to  P  one  there. And  so  if  we  were  going  to  go  into then  property  calculations,  Jason,  right? Or  Yeah.  So  this  is  an  important  part  here. So  if  we  want  to  know  the  properties  then of  here  namely  the  enthalpy  at  state  one, what  we're  going  to  write  with our  code  is  we'll  say,  for  example, it's  a  water  you  know, underscore  one  is  equal  to  our  IAP  WS, 97  of  t  equals  to  t one  and  P  equals  to  P  one  here. And  then  the  same  then  for  our  water  two, so  water  two  is  equal  to, and  I'll  show  you  in a  second  on  the  notebook, 97,  t  equals  t2p  equals  to  P  two. And  then  the  way  that  we  call the  enthalpy  command  here, is  that  this  is  going  to  be  water  underscore two  H.  And  then  the  way  that we'll  call  this  one  here  is  that  that's water  underscore  one,  right? And  the  output  of  IPWS, which  I  note  in  the  notation is  that  this  is  going  to have  units  of  kilojoules  per  Kelvin, just  like  in  your  book,  right? And  just  give  me  1  second. I'm  going  to  load  that  workbook  and calculate  the  values  with  it, and  then  I'll  take  your  questions. So  if  you  substitute  everything  in  here, so  we  put  our  0.95  kilograms/second, you  put  in  then  this  values  we'll  have  it. Alternatively,  This  is  one  way  you  can  do  it. The  other  way  that  you  can  do it  is  you  can  look  up  or recognize  that  we're  given  the  CP  values. So  this  is  one  way  to  look  at  it. Another  easier  way  to  do  it  would  just  be  to say  it's  u  that the  heat  transferred  in here  is  going  to  be  to  a  liquid, is  just  going  to  be  m12  specific  heat  of  our, let's  say,  our  cold,  CP  cold. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  equal  times CP  cold  times  R  t  two  minus  t  one. And  you  can  calculate both  last  time  when  we  did  this. I  think  the  error  between  the  two  was essentially  insignificant. So  here  you  would  then  have With  the  M  dot  0.95 kilograms/second  times  the  CP  cold, which  is  4.18  kilojoules  per  kilograms, seconds  and  our  T  two  is  equal  to 70  degrees  C  minus  ten  degrees C.  And  if  you  put  that  all  together, what  I  have  is  I  get  23823  8  kilowatts, with  that,  which  is  our  first  answer. All  right?  Whoops.  Our  first  answer  there. I  saw  some  hands  raised. Yes,  please.  Sure.  Let's  start  in  the  front. I'm  talking  practically. So  you  will  learn  with  time. If  you  deal  with  a  heat exchanger  like  that  where  you're pumping  in  cold  water  to warm  up  like  in  a  shower, the  pressure  that's  in  there  is  not  going  to be,  you  know,  maximally, you're  talking  like  1.5  times atmosphere,  you  know,  there. So,  what  you'll  see  sometimes  in the  problems  that  are  given  is, you  know,  you  look  at  that  and  you  can  think, Okay,  it's  a  liquid  there. It's  an  incompressible  substance. The  pressure  is  not  actually going  to,  you  know,  very  much  effect. The  properties,  the  liquid.  So  one  can look  at  that  as  a  determination. The  other  thing  that  you  can  do, and  this  is,  again, what  we  had  looked  at  before  is  to  use the  specific  heats  and  the  fact  that they  give  you the  temperature  differences  for  the  liquid. So  dot  CP  Delta  T.  And  again, I  think  what  we  had  done  before  gave us  the  difference  between  the  two  approaches gave  you  a  value  of  an  error  of like  0.00  whatever  percent. And  so  a  lot  of  times with  engineering,  you're  going  to,  like, immediately  gravitate  towards,  Okay, I  got  a  temperature  difference. They  give  me  a  CP. I  want  to  know  the  heat  in. M  CP  Delta  T.  Like  that. Okay?  And  again,  with  the  liquids, there's  only  one  C.  It's an  incompressible  substance. We  don't  differentiate  between  CPs  and CVs  with  liquids  and  solids  there. Okay?  Next  question. Water.  So  are  you speaking  about  a  liquid  water? Liquids  liquids  like  this, they're  generally  incompressible.  Yeah. Okay.  But,  for  steam,  you  have  both,  right? But  then  you  have  to  decide  is  it an  isochoric  and  isobaric process  and  then  you  decide  what  to  do. You  guys  had  a  homework  problem  with isochoric  heating  of  water  vapor,  right? So  there  was  Yeah,  so you've  dealt  with  the  CVs  already. Yeah.  Okay.  Maybe  let me  circulate  to  the  back and  on  this  side,  Sam. Have  one.  You  have  both. What  I'm  explaining  to  you  is  that  it's two  different  problem  solving  approaches. So  let's  call  this  as,  like  approach. Oh,  my  God. Right,  we  can  call this  as  like  Approach  one  here. So  let's  say  this  with  the  hopes, we  can  call  as,  like  approach  one. And  then  approach  two  is  to  say,  Okay, I  know  I've  simplified it  now  that  I  just  have aq.in  as  my  change  in  energy. What's  a  Q,  right? By  definition,  Q  is, you  know,  an  MC  Delta  T  there. This  is  a  liquid. So  there's  only  really  one  C, which  is  the  CP  that's published  in  your  books,  usually. So  I  have  an  M  dot  CP  Delta  T  there. So  these  are  two  different  approaches that  one  can  follow  for  it. Since  we're  given  temperatures and  the  C  values  in  the  problem, probably  you're  strongly  biased towards  this  also because  it's  more  convenient. Okay.  It's  not  They're  very  close. Like  I  said,  we're  talking, like,  I  think  before  when  I  did  it, it  was  like  0.003% error  difference  in  the  values. Like,  it  said  they were  practically  the  same,  right? Sure. I  mean,  you  could  break  it  down into  individual  ones  if  you  have  it. But  here  what  I'm  saying  from  the  problem, I  got  to  this  point,  and  I recognize  that  there's  only  Q  in. Right?  There's  only  Q  in. But  I  could  solve  for  that  Q  in  if  I'm  given those  temperature  differences  and all  of  that  for  this  problem,  right? Okay.  Sure. I  do  not  want  you  to  do  this. I  absolutely  do  not  want  you  to  do  this. I  want  you  to  say  Press. I  just  looked  it  up,  and  here's my  value  according  to  that. Okay.  I'm  doing  this  for  completeness,  right? Yes.  Cold  water. So  this  is  the  control  volume for  the  cold  water.  Y? Because  I  have  the.12m.12  out. I've  done  my  very  poorly drawn  best  attempt  to kind  of  exclude  out  the  middle  region in  my  two  dimensional  drawing  there. Importantly, what  I've  indicated  is that  I  have  a  Que  coming into  my  control  volume,  right?  Okay. Sure. Yeah,  obviously,  yes. Okay.  Sure.  Well. Well  insulated  on  the  outside. Every  heat  exchanger  that you  look  at  and  also your  hot  water  piping  are  always well  insulated  on  the  outside. On  the  inside  of  a  heat  exchanger, there  is  zero  insulation, right?  So  that  is  code. I  don't  have  heat  transfer  from  the outside  and  in  my  system, the  only  heat  exchanges  between my  two  fluid  streams. You're  saying  CP. I'm  not  saying  enthalpies. What  I'm  saying  is  that  I  can  represent  my q.in  like  this  because  of  my  energy  analysis. That's  what  it  is  by  definition. What  I'm  also  telling you  is  that  if  you  only  want to  deal  with  the  Q  for  this  problem, it  can  also  be  t  CP  Delta T.  So  I'm  just  talking  about the  definition  of  CP  cold  is  given. So  they  give  us  a  CP  cold  side  there. Yeah.  No,  it's  okay. It's  kind  of  confusing  there. Area. O.  We're  going  to. Very  good.  All  I'm doing  right  now  is  I'm  analyzing only  the  cold  water  stream as  my  control  volume  first. I'm  looking  how  energy's  changing  there, and  then  I'm  gonna  match  it with  the  hot  water  side. So  that's  gonna  be  the  next  step. Jason,  if  I  run  out  of  time  here, if  you  have  a  few  minutes  after  class, I  will  also  go  through  with  the  notebook  too. Okay.  Yeah,  but  I'm happy  to  troubleshoot  as  well. Okay.  All  right. Sam,  if  CP. I  mean,  like,  I'm  not  going  to. What  I'm  gonna  do  is  I'm  saying cold  water  side  has  CP  of  that. So  I'm  only  using  that  CP  for  the  cold. And  then  they  say  the  hot  water  has  this  one. I  could  understand  how  one  might interpret  that  slightly  differently. If  you  interpret  that  differently, I'm  also  fine  with  it. Cause  in  the  end,  what  is  the  difference? Exactly.  No,  It's  a  fair  question. I'm  not  trying  to  be. Yeah.  It's  a  fair  question,  okay? Alright,  I'm  going  to  move  on  now  to enema  Fst  beautifully  to  what's  coming  next, which  is  we  have  now  that that  Q  term  there,  right? And  so  I'd  like  to  move  now  on  to the  analysis  of  the  other  side. Or  maybe  let  me  just  make one  other  comment  here, which  is  that  we're  going  to  need the  entro  P,  right? We're  going  to  need  Ero  P  for the  next  part  or  the  second  part. And  all  I  wanted  to  mention there  is  that  when  we  want  ro  P, we  go  water  underscore  one  dot  S, water  underscore  two  dot  S  when  we  get  there. I  just  wanted  to  say that  before  moving  on,  right? Alright.  Mm. Alright.  Um,  cool. Alright.  Yeah,  very  good. So  now  we  can  analyze our  other  control  volumes. So  our  other  control  volume  is  a  pipe. Sound  like  all  dying  today. Alright?  So  our  other  control  volume  is a  straight  pipe  that  looks  like  this. Alright.  Okay. We  have  a  Q,  we  expect  a  Q  to  be  out  of  that. So  then  this  is  stat  three  that's  entering, state  four  that's  leading. So  this  is  the  hot  as  case the  hot  the  hot  fluid  stream  that's  entering, and  then  it's  being  cooled,  going  going  out. And  so  what  one  could  look  at. And  again,  it's  hot  water  here, so  it's  85  degrees  C.  It's  a  liquid. So  again,  this  is  85  degrees  C Yeah,  exactly  85, but  we  don't  know  what  state  four  is. So  what  we  can  do  is  we  can say  one  of  two  ways. So  we  can  do  it  with  the  energy  equation  way. So  we  can  say,  Okay,  we  have  Q, we  can  write  our  energy  equation. And  steady  state,  so our  e  dot  n  is  equal  to  our  et. W  plus  t  n  plus  m34, three  plus  W  three  squared divided  by  two  plus  g  z  three is  equal  to  r  w  plus  Q  plus 344  plus  W  four squared  divided  by  two plus  g  z  four.  All  right. And  again,  we  don't  have  work. There's  no  work  transfer. We  don't  have  any  Q  in  here. We  have  a  Q  out.  Again,  according to  our  assumptions  on kinetic  and  potential  energy. And  so  what  we  get  out  of  this  is  that  Q  is equal  to  m34  times  three, H  three  minus  H  four  there. What  we  could  do  is  we  could  say  that the  Q  dot  on the  cold  side  is  equal  to the  Q  dot  out  on  the  hot  side. And  so  that  value  that  we  had there  before,  238  kilowatts, 238  kilowatts  is  then  equal  to  the m.34h  three  minus  four. The  MD  34,  we  know,  H  three, how  we  would  determine  that, as  we  would  define  them  the  state  here, we  could  say  that  P  three  is  approximately equal  to  10132  5  pascals, basically  1  bar  or  1  atmosphere  of  pressure, and  then  water  three as  a  class,  underscore  three. We  can  say  is  the  I  A  P  WS  97. And  we  can  say  t  is  equal  to  T  three  here, right,  which  we  convert  to  Kelvin. And  then  our  P  is  equal  to  our  P  three  here, which  we  convert  to  the  megapascals. And  then  our  enthalpy  three  is just  water  underscore  three H.  And  so  with  this, you  could  substitute  that  into  here, and  we  could  solve  for  H  four. So  then  H  four  is  nothing  but  this  238238. Kilowatts,  divided  by  the m.34.  This  goes  to  here. So  this  is  equals  a  negative, and  then  p  plus  H  three,  right? Great.  And  with  that  information, knowing  that  enthalpy,  you could  then  define  your  state  four, so  water  underscore  four  is  then  equal  to  I a  PS  97  of which  is  equal  to  p  is  equal  to  P  four. What  is  P  four?  It's  a  heat  exchanger. So  P  four  must  be  equal  to  P  three. And  you  know,  the  enthalpy, the  enthalp  is  equal  to what  you  calculate  there. And  then  ultimately,  with  that, you  also  have  you  have complete  information  with  that. Alright?  Alright.  Well,  let me  make  this  big  screen  then.  Full. Alright.  And  how  do  you  call the  entropy,  like  I  said, so  the  way  you  call  the  entropy  command for  all  of  that  is  that, I  can't  buy  a  fricking  marker  today. Right?  So  our  water, S  one  is  equal  to  water. Underscore  one  dot  S. S  two  is  equal  to  water. Underscore  two  dot  S, S  three  is  equal  to  water. Underscore  three  S  and  S  four  is  equal to  water  underscore  four S.  There  like  all  dead. All  right.  I'm  going  to  move  on  to  red. That's  the  last  one  standing  here. Alright.  Um, A  All  right.  So  now  we  have  that. And  then  the  final  step  here  is  to  put this  all  together  now  for the  rate  of  entropy  generation. So  that  formula,  the  formula that  applies  then  for all  entropy  analysis  for the  control  volume  is  S  n minus  s  plus  S  g  E  n. This  means  generation  is  equal  to  the  rate of  change  of  entropy  in  the  control  volume. DS  system  or  alternatively, you  could  call  this  as  control  volume. I  think  we've  used  different  ones. But  this  is  the  formula  that's  there. We  assume  that  it  was  steady  state, right?  So  this  term  is  out. So  the  P  S,  these  are  dots. S  en  then  is  equal  to  s  minus  s  n,  right? So  S  en  is  equal  to s  minus  s  n,  right? And  all  that's  going  to  be is  This  is  basically  going  to  be  equal  to. We  can  think  about,  we have  both  streams  to  deal  with,  right? So  the  exiting  So we  have  an  out  minus  an  n. If  we  focus  first  just  on  the  cold  side, so  we  can  say.12 is  equal  to  the  entropy  exiting, which  is  S  two,  little  S. Now  minus  S  one,  little  S  one. And  then  the  same  thinking  out  minus n  applied  to  our  other  stream  as  m.34, S  four,  which  is  exiting minus  S  three,  right? And  so  if  you  put  this  all together  and  substitute  it right  according  to  these  definitions, here  or  also  just  look  up  in  the  tables at  those  different  temperatures  there, what  the  actual  entropy  values  would  be. The  rate  of  entropy  generation after  I  substitute  is  then 0.06  kilowatts  kilowatts  per  Kelvin, right?  S  en,  right? I  don't  expect  you  to  absorb  this all  right  now.  You  have  the  notebook  there. I  would  highly  recommend  going through  and  and  running  with  this, because  we're  going  to  do  a  bunch  of other  analysis  with this  formula  there  for  systems. I  personally  like  the  heat  exchanger  analysis for  this  technique  because  I  think  it makes  it  kind  of  intuitive  then where  the  entropy  generation  comes  from. We  don't  deal  with  anything that's  sort  of  unsteady. We're  just  talking  about  and  there's no  heat  transfer  coming into  this  entire  system. So  right  for  the  entropy  generation, just  to  be  clear  with  this  control  volume, I'm  talking  about  the  combined  control  volume of  my  pipe  here. And  then  this  is  my  other  ones. When  I'm  drawing  this  system is  a  control  volume, the  control  volume  that  I'm  analyzing here  is  this  one,  right? And  I  apologize  for  doing  it  all  in  red, I've  run  out  of  all  the  markers that  they've  given  me,  right? So  there's  no  heat  transfer  into  this  right? There's  no  heat  transfer  happening into  this  system. There's  only  heat  exchange  happening  within. Specifically,  Q  from  here  into  here. And  that's  the  nature of  the  entropy  generation,  right? The  nature  of  the  entropy generation  is  the  fact  that  you're  doing heat  exchange  from  one  stream  into  another. If  you  didn't,  what  would  happen  to your  Delta  Ss  here if  you  didn't  have  heat  exchange? Zero  in  both  cases,  right? So  you  know,  the fact  I  wish  I  could  do  that  Saturday  night. That  game  broke  my  heart.  I  had  to  say, you  know,  So,  but  that's  it. So  the  point  is  that  within  this  system, I  don't  have  queue  in,  right? There  is  no  queue  into  the  heat  exchanger. I  think  Max  Austin. Austin  mentioned  that  there, that  it's  well  insulated. That's  a  key  part  of  it,  right? There's  a  well  insulated  You  know, heat  exchangers,  there's  no  heat  coming  in. There's  only  heat  internal,  right? Happening  from  one  to  the  other, and  that  ultimately  leads  to  the  generation. Okay?  So  look  at this  one  and  use  it  with  your  homework. And  I  think  even  there  I  even have  this  formula  you  know, copied  within  it,  so  it  kind  of makes  it  more  intuitive.  Yes,  please. Isotropic. I  did  not  say  at  all that  it's  isotropic,  right? There  is  differences  in the  entropies  within it's  adiabatic,  adiabatic. The  heat  exchanger  from  the  outside  is an  atiobatic  control  volume, but  that  doesn't  mean  that  it's isotropic,  right? Because  it's  at  steady  state,  right? It's  a  steady  state  thing. Okay.  Other  questions. Just  a  few  more  minutes. One  more  minute,  everyone,  please. No,  I  So  isobaric. So  when  I  speak  about  a heat  exchanger  and  devices  like  that, we  assume  no  pressure  drop from  one  stream  in  to  one  stream  out. So  we  assume  we  don't  have  big differences  in  pressure  there. So  we  assume  Yeah, that  they're  the  same  pressure. Yeah.  So,  but  I  don't  want  to  say  isobaric. I'm  reluctant  to  do  that,  but  P one  is  P  two  in  this  case, and  P  three  is  P  four. Okay.  Other  questions. Alright,  with  that,  I  close  it. I'm  up  here  for  questions. I  think  I'll  take  a  few  minutes  with Jason  there  for  the  notebook  thing. And  then  if  you  all have  questions,  let  me  know. Alright?  Otherwise,  good  luck, everyone.  Send  me  your  e  mail. What  a  graveyard,  man.  Hi,  Sam. It's  a  steady  state.  So  the  first  assumption, I  go  back  many  boards. Steady  knock  it  doesn't  vary  in  time. So  a  steady  state, there's  no  variation  in  time, so  it's  gone.  D?  That's  it. Okay.  I'm  going  to  start  at the  right.  I'm  going  to  move  to  the  left.
