All  right,  I  got  210. I'm  going  to  get  started. Two.  So  today,  we're  going  to continue  with  entropy  analysis. Before  I  get  into  that,  I just  want  to  make  a  note,  right? So  this  class  is  right, it's  a  lower  division. It's  core  subject  there, which  is kind  of  a  euphemism  for  application  light. Like  we  don't  get  too  much into  applications  right  there. In  the  spring,  though, I'm  going  to  be  teaching a  class  and  on  data  center, basically  energy  management  in large  scale  systems, which  at  the  moment  means  data  centers. So  I'm  not  going  to  read  through  it. It's  all  there,  but  the  take  home  is, you  know,  one  third  thermodynamics fluid  mechanics  heat  transfer. No  requisite  knowledge  on  that  coming  in. Next  third  is  essentially implementation  there, and  then  the  final  third  is solving  problems,  use  inspired  cases. We'll  have  guest  lectures  from,  um,  you  know, computational  flu  dynamics experts  at  good  companies, cadence  Nvidia,  vert,  and  related. So  if  that  sounds  nice,  you  know, you're  welcome  to  join. We'd  love  to  have  you,  right? Okay,  so  after  today, you  should  be  able  to  analyze reversible  steady  flow  work  and the  important  parameters  and  then  be  able  to discuss  the  best  performance  for various  adiabatic  steady  flow  devices. So  we'll  look  at  turbine, and  if  there's  time  today,  we'll look  at  the  nozzle. And  in  your  homework,  you're  going  to be  doing  a  I'm  sorry, we'll  be  doing  turbine  and  compressor, and  then  you'll  also  have that  in  your  homework,  okay? But  first, let's  finish  the  problem that  we  started  last  time. So  last  time  we  were analyzing  a  heat  exchanger. So  we  were  looking  at a  hot  water  and cold  water  that  were  coming  together. So  we  had  a  cold  water  stream coming  in  with  a  mass  flow  rate  here, ten  degrees  C  and  with  some  mass  flow  rate. It  was  exiting  at  70  degrees  C, and  then  hot  water, which  was  coming  in  at  85  degrees  C  and a  mass  flow  rate  and  an  unknown. And  what  we  did  is  we  first applied  right  we  did  a  control  volume or  on  the  cold  on the  cold  water  stream,  right,  which  was  here. Okay.  And  because  we  knew the  incoming  and  the  exiting  properties and  the  mass  flow  rate, we  were  able  to  determine  how  much  heat was  being  transferred  into  it. So  we  knew  the  q.in. With  that  information,  the  mass  flow  rate of  this  and  the  temperature of  the  incoming  stream, we  were  able  to  determine  the  enthalpy  and the  temperature  of  the  exiting  stream,  okay? And  so  from  this,  we  had complete  knowledge  then  about  the  states. So  essentially,  we  knew state  one,  we  knew  state  two, we  knew  state  three,  and we  knew  state  four,  okay? And  where  we  stopped  was  in  the  analysis  of the  rate  of  entropy  generation inside  of  the  heat  exchanger,  okay? So  to  do  this  part  of  it,  right? So  remember,  for  this, I  said  to  break  it  down. Single  fluid  stream,  dry your  control  volume  to  your  analysis. Figure  out  your  states. When  you  do  entropy  generation  problems, you're  going  to  then  combine all  these  control  volumes,  right? So  if  I  call  this,  I  don't  know, control  volume  one,  and then  maybe  the  dash  one  is control  volume  two. When  we  do  the  entropy  analysis, we're  going  to  do  it  for  all  of  them,  okay? So  I'm  basically  just  going  to  draw the  red  dashed  line  around  that,  okay? And  just  like  with  the  energy  balance, all  right,  we  can  say,  right, that  the  rate  of  change  of entropy  in this  control  volume,  which  I  will  call, you  know,  maybe  I'll  call  this,  you  know, one  plus  two,  so  the  red  one  here. Is  equal  to  the  rate  that  entropy  enters minus  the  rate  that  it  exits plus  the  rate  that  it's  generated,  all  right? The  one  really  key  conceptual  difference in  this  analysis  compared  to  energy, is  that  one  entropy, right, for  the  entire  system  that  we  look  at  there, the  combined  one,  it  can  either  be  zero or  it  can  right,  it  can  increase. And  as  a  result  of  that,  right, we  have  this  gen  term, which  is  due  to essentially  irreversibilities, right,  as  we  talked  about,  okay? So  if  you  assume  steady  flow,  right? So  if  you  have  a  steady  flow  device,  device. Okay,  this  term  is  going  to  go  to  zero. And  so  S  dot  gen  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  rate  that  entropy  enters. I'm  sorry. S  dot  gen  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  rate  that  entropy  leaves, so  dot  out  minus  s.in,  right? So  if  we  call  this  one, so  this  is  a  mass  flow  rate  coming  in, let's  say  it's  M  dot  cold. And  then  this  is  the  mass  flow  rate, let's  say  M  dot  hot  hot. Oh,  my  God.  That's  a  new  one. So  which  fluid  streams are  leaving  the  heat  exchanger? Which  states  are  at  the  exit  of the  seed  exchanger? There's  two.  What  are  they? I  know  the  loss didn't  feel  very  good  this  weekend. Okay,  so  it's  the  even  numbers,  right? So  we  have  the  entropy  that's  leaving,  right, which  is,  we'll  write  a  little  S  two,  okay? And  we'll  have  a  little S  four,  which  is  here,  okay? Now,  we  need  to  multiply this  by  its  mass  flow  rate,  right? So  the  S  dot  out from  the  cold  water  stream then  is  going  to  be your  dot  let's  say  dot cold  cold,  which  is  there. And  for  the  SDOT  or  this  case  here, then  is  going  to  be  the  MDOT  hot,  okay? And  so  that's  your  SDOT  out,  all  right? Now,  this  is  minus  the  rate of  entropy  that's  entering. Now  this  is  entering then  being  carried  in with  the  fluid  at  state  one  and  state  three. So  the  MDT  cold  should  be  multiplied  by  what? S?  One.  Thank  you.  All  right. And  then  this  is  plus  m  dot  hot  times  what? Three,  right?  S  three. And  so  you  can  rearrange  this. If  you  rearrange  this,  we can  write  this  as  a  function  of the  we  can  pull  out  the  mass  flow  rate. So  we  can  have  dot,  let's  say,  cold, and  that  could  be  times  S two  or  little  S  two  minus  little  S  one, it's  S  two  minus  S  one, and  that  could  be  times  M  dot  hot times  the  leading  term there  should  be  S  four,  okay? And  that's  four  minus  S  three,  okay? And  that's  the  rate  of  entropy  generation. Let's  see  if  I  have  some  numbers  to  this. First  of  all,  let me  make  sure  I  did  it  right. I'm  not  cold.  I'm  not  hot. Yes,  that  looks  correct. Mm  hmm.  Yeah,  so  if  you substituted  in  the  properties that  we  continue  there, so  the  dot  gen  big  dot  gen  is  an  equal to  0.063  kilowatts  per  kelvin,  okay? Um  Yeah, and  why  are  we  able  to  determine  this? Because  if  you  look  at  dot or  basically  your  S  parameters, see,  these  are  properties,  okay? And  we  were  able  to  determine,  right, the  properties  of  the  fluid  into the  analysis  at  the  end of  the  last  lecture,  right? So  these  are  things  that you  just  like  look  up. You  know,  as  a  function  of the  fluid  chain  that's  coming  in. So,  that's  the  substance, and  then  let's  say the  pressure  and  the  temperature. Or  in  this  case,  we  analyze  the  enthalpy. So  we  need  the  pressure  the  enthalpy, and  you'll  be  able  to  get  that,  right? So  you  have  it, you  substitution  and  you  get  it. Um  If  you  want  to reflect  on  this,  as  I  said  before, so  for  this  process, the  generation  can  either  be zero  or  it  can  be  a  positive  value,  right? Because  essentially  you  have within  even  if  this  device  is  adiabatic, so  even  if  no  heat  transfer is  coming  in  from  the  outside because  there's  heat  being exchanged  between  the  cold and  the  hot  streams, you'd  have  expectation  of a  positive  value,  okay? So  start  simple,  right? Do  control  volumes for  the  individual  streams. Good  understanding  then  of  the  states,  okay? Once  you  know  that,  it's  easy  to  go  in and  then  do  the  rate  of  heat  transfer. And  again,  just  applying this  analysis  of  the  entropy  analysis of  a  control  volume. You  just  draw  it  around  the  entire  device, and  then  plug  and  chug. It's  pretty  straightforward,  all  right? Questions?  Great.  All  right. So  there's  not  as  usal, you  can  click  on that  link  and  follow  through  if  you  have questions  when  you're  doing your  homework  and  all  that. All  right,  do  do. So  reversible  steady  flow  work. So  what  we'll  do  at  this  stage  is  we're  going to  continue  to  build  on that  concept  of  a  process  being, you  know,  reversible  and adiabatic  is  isentropic, and  we're  going  to  use this  to  write  maybe  one  of the  most  famous  equations in  fluid  mechanics,  right? So  this  equation  we're  going  to derive  is  called  the  Bernoulli  equation. Daniel  Bernoulli  was  a  Swiss  guy, came  from  a  very  prominent  family of  mathematicians  there,  okay? So  And  really  what  the  formula  is that  will  derive  is  that essentially  pressure on  a  fluid  causes  it  to  move. Okay?  So  maybe  you  knew  that, but  ME  40  thermodynamics, if  you  didn't,  now,  you  know  it  today. All.  Okay.  Um  do  do. Alright,  so  we  can  start  with  the  pipe. So  imagine  we  have  here  a  pipe. Let's  say  we  have  some  state  one  at the  inlet  and  let's  say a  state  two  at  the  exit. We  can  draw  a  control  volume  around  the  pipe. We  can  do  our  conservation  equations,  right? So  this  is  our  control  volume,  right? The  dm  CV  dt  is  equal  to m.in  minus  M  dot  out,  right? So  we  have  a  single  stream in  and  a  single  stream  out. And  if  we  assume, this  is  a  steady  flow  device. Okay,  right?  This  is  going  to  go  out. You  write  the  same  thing  for our  conservation  of  energy,  DE,  CV, dt,  and  it's  equal  to  our e.in  minus  our  E  dot  out. And  for  the  same  reason,  if  it's a  steady  flow  device, There's  no  change  in the  energy  of  the  control  volume, which  means  that  that  term  also goes  to  zero,  right? We  can  write  our  e  dot,  right? So  our  generalized  e  dot could  be  a  work  power, so  W  dot  Q  dot, an  dot  times  an  enthalpy of  velocity  squared  divided  by  two, and  then  a  G  Z,  right? So  this  is  the  enthalpy. So  internal  energy  plus  flow  work, kinetic  energy,  potential  energy  there. Consequence  of  this  is  that.in  is equal  to  M  dot  out  is  equal  to  m  dot. Great.  All  right. So  we  make some  further  assumptions  assumptions. So  one  of  them  is  that  we  have an  incompressible  fluid,  Icopressible. What's  an  example  of  an  incompressible  fluid? Water. Okay,  so  water  is  one  example. We're  going  to  assume,  right, adiabatic  adiabatic  plus  reversible. Which  implies  what?  Isentropic. Okay.  So  we  have  an  isentropic. Right?  So  we  have  an  isentropic  flow,  right? Do  do.  We're  also going  to  have  no  shaft  work. So  we  have  no  shaft  work  there. And  so  if  we  write  our  conservation of  energy  equation, we're  going  to  be  able  to  say, just  to  maybe  come  back  here  and  write  it. So  if  we  say  that  there's  no  work, there's  no  heat  transfer, the  MDOT  in  is  the  MDOT  out. Essentially,  it's  just  going  to  be  enthalp  P plus  kinetic  energy  plus  potential  energy. The  inlet  is  equal  to  the  same at  the  outlet,  right? So  you're  going  to  say  that  H one  plus  velocity  one  squared divided  by  two  plus  gz  one  is  equal  to  H two  plus  w  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  two. That's  a  two.  All  right. Good.  Mm  hmm. You  recall  the  derivation that  we  did  before  where  we related  changes  in  entropy  to changes  in  enthalpy  and  pressure. So  ds  is  equal  to  dH  minus  V  dp. So  TD  little  S, d  little  H  minus  little  V  dp  and  right, so  since  V  is  equal  to  a, um,  is  equal  to  a  constant. We  can  integrate  this. So  if  we  integrated  this,  then  here, what  we'd  have  is  then  T  times  S two  minus  S  one  is  equal  to H  two  minus  H  one  minus  V  P  two  minus  P  one. It's  isentropic  isentropic, which  implies  what  that's  it. R  S  two  is  this  one, which  in  this  case  implies  that  rate h2h2  minus  H  one is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  negative  of little  V  P  two  minus  P  one. Yes,  please.  H  two  minus  H  one, this  should  be  a  positive. Thank  you.  Other  feedback. So  just  for  on  the  recording, this  should  be  a  positive. Okay.  No. Okay. Yeah,  so  we  can  rearrange. So  if  we  rearrange our  original  formula  that's up  there,  maybe  I'll  do  it  right  here. So  if  we  rearrange  that  to  be H  two  minus  H  one, this  would  be  W  one  squared  divided  by two  plus  G  Z  one  is  equal  to  H two  minus  H  one  plus W  two  squared  divided  by  two  plus  G  two. Mm  hmm.  This,  right? We  can  do  a  substitution  to  here. And  so  that'll  be  V  P  two  minus  P  one, and  close  to  our  final  form. So  if  I  can  write  this  as  let's  see  here. So  I  can  do  zero,  right? Zero  is  equal  to V  P  two  minus  P  one.  All  right. We  can  do  the  W  terms  now. So  plus  W  looks  like  W  two squared  minus  W  one  squared  divided  by  two, and  then  plus  G  Z  two  minus  Z  one. There  newly  equation. Yeah,  so  this  works. So,  what  is  this  valid? This  is  basically  valid  for,  right? Incompressible  fluids. Like  you  mentioned,  water,  no  friction. All  right.  And  no  fun  things like  shock  waves. All  right.  All  right. And  the  take  home  message, all  right,  is  that  you  can  do things  like,  you  know, have  trade  offs  between pressures  that  you  apply,  okay? Which  can  cause  fluids  to  move, right,  to  gain  kinetic  energy. And  you  can  also  store  that as  potential  energy,  right? So  this  could  be,  like  what  we  would call  as  a  hydrostatic  term, something  like  a  tall  column  of  liquid, right? There  might  be  a  lot of  pressure  at  the  base  of  that. And  if  there  was  no  pressure applied  right  across  from, let's  say  at  the  top  of  the  column, right,  you  have  atmospheric  pressure, maybe  at  the  bottom  of  it  also  atmospheric, and  then  you  poke  a  hole,  right? Right?  Initially,  you  start  off  with no  velocity  at  one  end  of  the  pipe, and  at  the  other  one,  you  have a  very  large  one,  okay? So  pressure  on  a  fluid causes  it  to  move,  all  right? Icon  incompsible,  no  friction, no  shock  waves,  essentially,  isentropic  flow. All  right?  Questions? You'll  use  it  at  M  one  oh  six.  All  right? I  think  it's  say  you  already  know  it. Good.  Um  let's  see.  Do  do. All  right.  So  moving  along. So  now  we  can  continue  with this  analysis  in  isentropic and  apply  it  towards  devices. If  you  remember  before,  what  I  mentioned  was that  we're  going  to treat  these  devices  as isotropic  to  figure  out, in  the  case  of  a  compressor, what's  the  minimum  amount of  work  I  need  to  put  in, or  in  the  case  of  a  turbine, what's  the  maximum  amount  of work  that  I  could  get  out? And  what  we're  going  to  do  today, we'll  start  with  the  turbine  is  to account  for  a  reality,  actual  systems. So  actual  systems  have  friction  and  that, and  the  way  that  this  is  expressed  is  in terms  of  isentropic  efficiencies,  right? So  what's  an  isotropic efficiency  in  the  case  of  a  turbine? It's  the  ratio  of  the  actual turbine  work  that's  done normalized  or  divided  by the  isentropic  turbine  work,  right? Just  to  remind  you how  these  turbines  look  like, you  have  an  upstream  condition that's  the  same  in  both,  all  right? So  you  have  a  pressure,  let's say  that's  coming  out  of  a  boiler, so  superheated  steam  at  some  pressure and  temperature  that's entering  into  your  turbine. In  the  case  of a  reversible  adiabatic  turbine, right,  it's  isotropic. You're  going  to  be  given,  usually the  pressure  downstream,  right? And  again,  in  a  rankin  cycle, that's  going  to  be  what's  inside  of the  condenser,  but  that's  a  given. And  in  order  to  determine the  enthal  P  here  at  this  state, you  have  to  assume  something, which  in  this  case,  adiabatic  reversible, it's  the  same  entropy,  right? So  S  one  here  is  equal  to  S  two, and  you  can  analyze  that  and then  get  the  denominator,  right? From  that, we  essentially  have  the  denominator. In  this  case,  again,  you  have the  same  upstream,  the  same  pressure. To  analyze  this,  you'd be  given  inefficiency,  right? And  the  name  of  the  game  is  you  use this  information  to  determine  enthalpy  two. You  can  also  determine  the  entropy, but  essentially,  you'll  determine the  enthalpy  at  this  state. And  then  with  that,  you'll  be  able  to  say how  much  power  you  actually get  out  of  the  device. I'm  presenting  this  graphically. So  here  you  see  a  plot  of pressure  enthalpy  for  water,  right? So  saturated  liquid,  saturated  vapor, both  starting  at  the  same  initial  state. You  see  here  the  move  to  two  S, and  then  here  actually  two  A,  right? So  which  one  of  those  produces  more  work? One  to  two  S  or  one  to  two  A? What  does  the  work  of  a  turbine  depend  on? What  is  the  formula  for  a  turbine? W  dot  turbine  is  equal  to  M  dot times  w.  All  right. H  one  by  H  two. Which  of  these  has the  larger  difference  between  H one  and  H  two? You  don't  have  to  answer.  It's  rhetorical. We'll  do  it  in  this  example All  right.  So  we'd  like  to  derive. So  the  goal  of  this  is  we're  going  to  derive derive  isentropic  efficiency of  a  turbine. All  right.  And  the  next  thing we're  going  to  do  is  we're  going  to  be given  of  a  turbine. So  if  it's  an  adiabatic  adiabatic  turbine. And  if  we're  told  that P  one  is  equal  to  three  p, and  T  one  is  equal  to  350  degrees  Celsius, and  P  two  is  equal  to  75  and pa  with  an  isentropic  efficiency of  the  turbine  equal  to  0.9, determine  T  to  actual and  T  two  isentropic. So  in  my  notation  here, when  I  speak  about  the  downstream  state, so  that's  the  state  two  out  of  my  turbine. When  I  write  S,  this  is  the  isentropic, and  when  I  write  A,  this  means  actual. I  think  the  book  does  the  same. And  then  we'll  show  it  on a  diagram.  I'm  showing  it  there. So  you  have  pH  a  pH  diagram. Okay.  All  right. So  our  assumptions  are  that  we  have,  right, control  volume,  right, mass  enters  and  crosses  the  boundary. We  can't  assume  an  ideal gas  because  this  is  water. Um,  We're  going  to neglect  kinetic  energy and  potential  energy  effects. It's  an  adiabatic  process. It's  a  steady  flow  process, and  we  have  a  single  inlet  and a  single  outlet,  right? So  if  we  again, if  we  write  our  w.in  plus q.in  plus  dot  plus  w  squared divided  by  two  plus  gz  one  is equal  to  our  w  dot  out  plus  Q  dot out  plus  our.h2  plus w  squared  divided  by  two,  gz  two. All  right.  Adiabatic,  right?  So  this  is  gone. We  don't  have  any  work  transferring because  this  is  a  turbine. We  don't  have  significant  changes in  kinetic  and  potential  energies. And  so  our  W  dot  right  out  is  nothing but  dot  times  H  one  minus  H  two. Now,  in  this  case, where  we  know  we  now  determine  our  states. So  we're  going  to  talk  about  state  one. With  state  one,  I  know  P  one, and  I  know  T  one, which  means  that  I  know  S  one and  I  know  H  one,  okay? Talk  about  state  two  S.  For  state  two  S, I  know  P  two, and  I  know  that  little  S  two  is equal  to  little  S  one,  right? And  so  it  means  that  I  can  determine  h2s, and  I  can  determine  TS, and  that's  one  of the  things  we'd  like  to  know. All  right.  That's  great. So  we  know  the  states. Let's  come  back  to  our  formula  here. So  we  can  define  a  W  dot  out  of the  isotropic  system  is the  mass  flow  rate  times  H  one  minus  H  twos. We  can  also  define  the  power out  of  the  device  for  the  actual, and  that's  dot  H  one  minus  H  two  actual. You  see  here  the  definition of  the  isentropic  efficiency, which  is  given  in  the  problem  as  0.9. So  the  isentropic  efficiency  is  defined as  the  power  out of  the  turbine  for  the  actual  case, divided  by  the  power  out  for  the  isentropic. And  this  is  going  to  be  a  number that's  less  than  one,  right? Because  you  can't  do  better  than the  isentropic  case. That's  the  maximum  power  out you're  going  to  be  able  to  get  out  of this  adiabatic  turbine  is  W  dot  out S.  If  W  dot out  of  the  actual  was  actually  isentropic, if  it  had  an  isentropic  effiency  of  one, then  they're  essentially  the  same. So  you  can  substitute these  two  equations  that  we  have  above. And  so  you'll  have  M  dot, H  one  minus  H  two  A divided  by  m.h1  minus  h2s. The  dots  cancel, and  that's  what  it's  defined  as. The  book  calls  this  an  approximation. Why  is  this  an  approximation? What  approximation  do  we  make? We  neglected  kinetic  and potential  energy  changes,  okay? So  here,  that's  the  assumption that's  implicit  when  you  write  this. So  in  the  book, you'll  see  sometimes  it's  writing  it as  like  approximately  equal, but  this  is  what  you'll  do,  right? So  you  have  this  defined, and  then  you'll  go  to  a  formula  like  that. And  the  goal  out  of  this exercise  is  we  know  H  one. We  know  H  twos,  right? Because  we  determined  it  here. And  so  what  you're trying  to  find  from  this  analysis  in the  substitution  is  actually H  two  A,  all  right? So  again,  you're  given  upstream  state. You  can  determine the  isentropic  downstream  state, and  you're  given  E  to  T,  right? So  the  isentropic  efficiency the  turbine  is  0.9. And  so  you  solve  for  H  two  A. All  right.  And  by  knowing  that, so  now  with  state  two, so  we  can  call  state  two  A, by  knowing  that,  we  know  P two  just  as  it  was  before, and  now  we  know  H  two  A. And  with  that,  we  can  determine  then  T  two  A, which  was  one  of  the  asks  out  of  the  problem. So  we  use  Pi  color. I'm  going  to  use  Pi  color  again, define  this  state  here,  I  have  TS. Define  that  state  to  have  T  two  A. And  so  the  T  I have  as  our  T  start  with  T  two  A.  I  have  T  A, which  is  equal  to  o  no,  I've  printed  now. Oh,  that's  awesome.  I've  printed the  same  value  twice. Super  good.  I  All  right. So  this  is  anyways, this  would  be  the  analysis, and  then  this  is  the  way that  you'd  get  to  it. I'll  update  the  Jupyter  Notebook and  post  the  link  to  that  there. But  again,  just  to  summarize, the  whole  point  of  this  exercise  is  you're going  to  be  given  upstream  state, a  downstream  pressure, an  isotropic  efficiency, and  you're  going  to  be  asked  to determine  things  like  what  is  the  work, the  power  output  of  the  device. You  go  to  this  formula, solve  for  H  twoA. With  the  downstream  pressure, you'll  have  complete  information,  okay? You  could  also  determine,  because once  you  have  H  twoA, you  could  also  determine, right,  the  actual  power  output by  then  substituting into  that  formula,  all  right? Okay.  Cool. Yeah.  And  so  if  you  look  at  this  diagram, so  I've  also  used  the defined  a  process  for  this. So  I  define  a  state  one  to  state  two, and  I  use  the  process  class of  Pi  Killor  to  create  a  pH  diagram. And  you'll  see  here  that  for  state  two  S, the  enthalpy  is  less  than  that  for  two  A, right?  So  the  difference,  right? The  difference  in  the  enthalpy  between H  one  and  H  twoS  is  greater  than the  difference  of  H  one  and  H  two  A. And  so  what  it  means,  right, is  that  one  to  two  S is  going  to  produce  more  power,  right? This  value  here  is  going  to  be larger  than  that  one,  right? So  this  would  be  very  easy, and  you  would  just  take  that  with  you, and  I  wouldn't  have  to  say  more,  but, you  know,  because  we like  to  make  things  interesting, we'll  talk  about  now  a  compressor. In  the  case  of  a  compressor, it  is  not  the  ratio  of the  actual  work  divided by  the  isotropic,  right? So  it's  what  is  the  work  here? This  is  the  work  you  transfer into  the  system,  okay? So  an  isentropic  efficiency of  a  compressor  is the  isentropic  compressor  work in  divided  by  the  actual  compressor  work  in. The  turbine  is  the  actual  turbine  work out  divided  by  the  isotropic  turbine  workout. The  way  that  I  think  about  this  is, in  the  case  of  a  turbine,  I  want  to maximize  my  workout,  right? And  if  this  is  an  efficiency, the  maximum  term  has to  be  in  the  denominator. I  want  that  to  be  less  than  one. It's  the  same  with  the  compressor. For  the  compressor,  I  want  to  put the  minimum  work  in  to  compress  that  gas. So  that  minimum  work  has  to  be  then  in the  numerator  with  it,  right? Okay.  Cool.  Do  do  do? Where  should  I  start? I  think  I  will  keep  this  formula here  and  just  jump  off  from  here. So  just  like  with  the  turbine, so  we're  going  to  derive  the isentropic  efficiency  of  a  compressor. We're  going  to  assume  adiabatic. And  for  one  of  the  cases,  we're going  to  assume  reversible. So  we're  going  to determine  the  isotropic  state. We're  going  to  neglect  kinetic and  potential  energies,  right? So  we  can  write. This  one  is  no  longer  gone,  right? This  is  going  to  be  w.in. We're  not  going  to  have  a  W  dot  out,  right? So  the  w.in  is  going to  be  equal  to  m  dot  times  H  two. Minus  H  one. We  can  write  this  for the  isotropic  case,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  M  dot  H twos  minus  H  one. And  we  can  write  w.in  actual, which  is  then.h2a  minus  H  one. The  definition,  so  E  to  C, so  the  isentropic  efficiency  of a  compressor  is  then  the  ratio  of w.in  isentropic  divided  by  w.in  actual. If  we  do  our  substitutions, M  dot  H  twos  minus  H  one, m.h2a  minus  H  one. The  dots  cancel  this  is  then  just  H  two, excuse  me,  H  one, H  two  A  minus  H  one. Again,  the  book  says  this  is an  approximation  because  again, we're  neglecting  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. Good.  But  now  we  need  some  right? We  need  to  basically determine  some  properties  here. Let's  look  and  see.  I  think  I  have some  properties  for  this  problem. Okay.  So  again,  we  want  to define  isotropic  efficiency  of a  compressor.  All  right. It's  adiabatic. Our  P  one  and  our  T  one  are  equal  to 100  kpa  and  let's  say  20  degrees  C, so  something  from  ambient. The  P  two  is  five  times  P  one, so  we  can  do  500  pa, and  the  isotropic  efficiency of  the  compressor  is  0.9. And  again,  we  want to  determine  those  temperatures, and  we'll  also  plot  a  temperature  TS we'll  create  a  TS  diagram. All  right,  so  let's  look  at  state  one, so  we  can  determine  H  one. So  state  one  here, we  know  P  one, and  we  know  T  one. And  so  from  this,  we're  going  to  know  S  one, little  S  one,  and  little  H  one. So  we  have  that.  We  can  determine state  two  S.  All  right. The  input  there  is  that  little S  two  is  equal  to  little  S  one, and  we  know  P  two. So  we  have  h2s  there, and  we'll  have  T  two,  right? So  the  isentropic  enthalpy  and  temperature. If  we  come  back  now  to  Our  formula. So  what  did  I  say?  I  said  that  this is  a  given  this  is  0.9. This  we  determined,  right? Determined  determined. HwS  we  determined. And  so  what  you're  solving  for  here  again is  H  two  A. All  right.  And  so  with  this, I  have  state  two  A. Again,  I  know  P  two, just  like  before,  and  now  I  know  H  two. And  so  with  this,  you're  going  to  be  able  to determine  T  two  actual, right,  which  was  Right? So  we  know  that  and  we  know  that, and  that's  what  we were  asked  to  do  in  the  problem. And  thankfully,  in  this  case, I  did  not  print  the  same  value. So  here,  T  two, what  I  have  from  using  Pyclor. So  with  T  two  A, I  have  481  Kelvin. And  with  TS,  I  have  463  Kelvin. And  why  does  that  make  sense? That  makes  sense. Because  in  the  case  when  it's an  isentropic  work  transfer  process, you  need  less  work  in. You're  transferring less  energy  into  the  system. And  so  if  this  is  something  like, you  know,  this  was  air, we're  working  with  areas  of  fluid  here, compressors  always  work  with  gases. So  if  this  is  areas  of  fluid,  if  we  assume, which  we  didn't  need  to  here,  but if  you  want  to  think  logically  about  it, that  air  probably  behaves  like an  ideal  gas,  right? I  put  work  into  that,  transfer  work  in. I'd  have  an  expectation  of a  change  of  my  internal  energy, and  that  only  depends  on  temperature. So  in  this  case,  For the  case  when  I  put  less  work  in, I  would  expect  a  lower  temperature at  the  end  of  the  compressor  compared to  the  actual  case  where  I have  irreversibilities,  all  right? But  again,  the  problem solving  approach  is  identical, you  know,  to  the  turbine. I  just  have  I  have a  different  formula  for the  isentropic  efficiency. So  in  this  case,  the  ratio  of the  isentropic  work  in divided  by  the  actual  work  in,  all  right? So  that's  the  only  part  where  I would  say  confusion  comes  up  into  this. Otherwise,  we  have  the  formula. You  got  that.  Again,  plug  and  shug. It  should  be  straightfor. Questions  about  this. Am  I  going  to  finish  early?  Yes,  please. Thank  you,  we  expect  the  temperature  to be  higher  on.  Say  it  again. For  the  turbine,  would the  temperature  differences  be swapped  from  the  compressor with  the  temperature  higher  on the  isotropic  I'm  not  sure.  I  have  to  see. I'll  have  to  see  with  it.  But  what  you  would expect  for  a  system  that  gets  more  workout. So  if  you're  thinking  about  workout, I  think  the  better  question  to  ask is  actually  about  pressure. So  which  one  actually  gets  to,  you  know, what  is  the  you  know, if  I  was  going  to  think  about a  term  I  know  it  was  fixed  here. I  know  the  downstream  pressure  was  fixed, but  if  I  was going  to  think  about  one  that  was going  to  be  maximizing  more  out  of  it, I  would  think  about  like a  pressure  term  downstream. So  yeah.  But,  I  mean, if  I  do  have  a  system  and  I  take more  work  out  of  it,  so  if  I,  you  know, flipped  it  and  I  said,  I  took more  work  out  of  this  compared  to, you  know,  let's  say  I  had a  turbine  running  on  air, right?  It's  an  ideal  gas. If  I  took  more  work  out of  one  process  versus  the  other, you  know,  what  would  you  expect  the  effect on  temperature  at  the  outlet  to  be? Be  lower,  right?  Yeah,  so and  so  I  would  think then  for  the  steam  turbine, not  applying  ideal,  but  if  I  looked  at  that, that  would  be  my  expectation  going  in. Other  questions?  Nice  question. And  I  got  to  remember  how  to use  print  in  Python. Alright.  Great.  So  that's  it.  I. So  what  you're  going  to  be  able  to  do,  again, so  reversible  steady  flow  work,  you  know, processes  there,  we  drive  Bernoulli  today, and  you're  going  to  be  able  to  apply  now. We  have  two  new  things,  right, isentropic  efficiency  of  a  turbine, isentropic  efficiency  of  a  compressor. This  allows  us  to analyze  real  devices,  right? You  can  go  in  and  analyze. These  are  things  you  can  look  up,  right? You  can  look  that  up  and  have it  and  facilitate  it. I  am  happy  to  stay  until  the  end  of lecture  here  in  case  people  have  questions. What  I  would  say  for  the  quiz  is  we're hard  at  work  grading.  I  hope  to  be  done. We  hope  to  be  done  by  Friday and  release,  okay? Thank  you.
