Wonderful.  So  today,  we continue  with  vapor  power  cycles. So  after  today,  you're going  to  be  able  to  analyze a  reheat  vapor  power  cycle  and a  regenerative  vapor  power  cycle. I've  already  introduced  you  to regeneration  in  the  context of  a  Braden  cycle. We're  going  to  do  it  today  in  the  context of  a  closed  loop  rankin  cycle,  okay? Before  I  get  into  that,  since you  As  about  Quiz  two, what  I  will  note  is  that  the  practice quiz  is  already  online. This  is  what  I  ran  last  year. Last  year,  at  this  point, what  I  asked  was  an  entry  be  generation, an  ideal  Humphries  cycle, which  is  a  great  cycle. It's  a  detonation  engine,  super  good. Then  the  ideal  Ericsson  cycle. Ericsson  is  Sterling  is a  piston  cylinder  device. Basically  the  most  efficient piston  cylinder  device  you  could  have. Ericsson  is  the  most efficient  steady  flow  device you  could  have  for  an  engine. I'll  continue  to  add  more  as  I  find 5  minutes  and  10  minutes  in my  day  to  have  problems,  right? Okay,  so,  David,  last  time, well,  I  don't  see  him, had  brought  up  this  point about  how  can  we  think  about improving  the  efficiency  of  a  ranking  cycle? There  are  several  ways  one  can  do  this. So  one,  which  I  show  here  is essentially  reducing the  pressure  in  the  condenser. So  if  you  think  about  what our  system  looks  like,  right? We  have  this  boiler,  okay? So  we  have  q.in,  which  is  here,  right? Steam  comes  out  at  some  state  here. We  put  this  into  a  turbine. Okay.  You  know,  here  we  expand  that. We  then  put  that  into  a  surface  condenser. So  many,  many  tubes  where  water  condenses. And  then  this  goes  back into  a  pump  where  we  have aw.in  to  a  pump.  Okay? And  then  this  goes  back  into  the  boiler. So  this  is  where  our  Q  dot  out  happens. This  is  where  our  shaft work  out  happens,  right? And  so  what  sets the  pressure  in  the  condenser? So  again,  this  condenser  right? I  can  draw  like  kind  of  a  side  view  of  this. So  if  I  was  showing  this  as  like  a  side  view, the  way  that  this  works, is  that  you  have  steam that  comes  into  the  top  of this  thing  from  the  turbine and  then  exits  as  a  liquid. Remember,  this  great discussion  from,  you  know, Ben  in  the  last  lecture  about  what a  condensed  state  is  and  how we  define  it,  right? So  you  have  a  quality here  that's  equal  to  zero. It  comes  out  of  liquid,  and it  comes  as  a  superheated  vapor. And  the  way  that  we  condense  is  we have  many  tubes,  right? This  is  one  version  of  it. You  have  like  many  tubes. I'm  not  really  showing  that  many, where  we're  bringing,  let's  say, cooling  water  in  at  some  temperature. So  maybe  this  is  like  a  T, you  know,  five  coming  in, and  maybe  this  is  a  T  six  that's  coming  out, and  it's  a  liquid,  right? A  lot  of  this  is groundwater  that  we  bring  in, we  pass  through,  right, and  it  exits  this  system. And  then  on  the  outside  of  these  tubes, this  is  where  water  condenses,  right? So  water  is  going  to  condense  on the  outside  of  these  tubes,  all  right? And  then  it's  going  to  when  the droplets  are  big  enough, it's  going  to  start  to,  you  know, drip  down  and  drain  into  here. So  what  sets,  there's  a  lot  of.  Okay. So  what's  going  to  set the  pressure  that's  in there  is  the  temperature, because  this  is  a  saturated  condition,  right? I  have  a  mixture  of  vapor  and  liquid. And  so  this  something, let's  say  between  T  five  and  T  six.  Okay? So  let's  say,  you  know, we  have  some  temperature that's  the  average,  I  don't  know, T  five  plus  T  six,  you  know,  there. So  we  have  some  temperature  like  that. The  lower  Let's  say  that  you  make  this, and  then  the  lower  will  be the  saturation  vapor  pressure  that's  there. So  the  colder  that  I  get  that, the  colder  or  the  lower  then  will  be the  pressure  that  I have  then  inside  of  that  condenser. Alright?  What  it  means is  since  the  workout  of  this  device, what's  the  workout  of  a  steady  flow  device? What's  the  shaft  work  going  to  be  equal  to? AV,  Alex. Okay. Now,  David  is  here.  You  moved  on  me. So  what's  the  workout of  a  steady  flow  device? So  piston  cylinder,  it's  PDV. What  is  it  as  steady  flow? Don't  make  me  ask  Melanie.  She's  behind. H. No,  not  H.  It  could  be  H.  It  could  be  DH, yes.  But  what's  another  way,  right? So  if  I  talked  about  a  shaft  work, I  could  say  PDV  when it  was  a  piston  cylinder  device. And  when  I  talked  about  a  steady  flow  device, it's  isochoric,  but  I have  a  pressure  difference  across  it. So  the  V  is  constant. So  V  times,  that's  it,  right? So  you  have  a  specific  volume  there,  right? I  have,  let's  say,  if  this  is  one, two,  three,  four,  so  one, two,  three,  and  then  four  is  a  state, then  what  you're  going  to  have  is P  three  minus  P  four. So  the  reason  why  you  get  more  work  out  of this  make  the  temperature  lower, you  make  the  pressure,  right? P  or  P  four,  they're  lower. So  you  have  a  bigger  Delta  P,  right? That's  one  way  to  make  it  more  efficient. What  actually  happens  in  power  plants, though,  is  the  other  way. You  start  off  pristine.  Everything  is  great. And  these  pipes  corrode,  they  get  fouled. And  what  it  means  is  that  the  outside of  these  tubes  get  warmer. It  means  the  pressure  goes  up, the  Delta  P  less. It  means  you  get  less  workout. They  call  that  derating  de  rating,  okay? And  it's  not  a  small  amount  of  energy. It's  not  a  small  amount.  It's  measuring like  several  percent  power  plants. You  put  that  on  a  global  scale. It's  a  lot  of  energy. It's  a  lot  of  extra  CO  two  emissions. It's  a  lot,  okay?  So  you  can  try  to, you  know,  make  this  colder. That's  why  you  can  use  water.  Water  will get  you  to  a  lower  temperature. Other  ones  will  use  air. So  sometimes  you'll  see,  you  know, maybe  they'll  blow  air and  try  to  reject  heat. It  depends  on  where  you're  located. But  my  gut  would  say  that  with  air, you're  probably  not  going  to  get  to a  lower  temperature  compared  to something  like  water  water  cooled,  okay? Great.  So  that's  what  it  is,  right? So  I  get  to  lower  pressure, and  then  because  of  that, I'm  going  to  have  that  extra area  within  my  loop. The  area  enclosed  in  that  loop  is, of  course,  the  net  Q  in, which  for  a  cycle  is the  network  out,  all  right? Other  way  we  can  do  it  is,  right? You  can  just  simply go  to  higher  temperatures. We  talked  about  that  before, but  there's  limits  to  this. So  if  you  think  about  a  rank  in  cycle, What  limits  the  temperature and  the  pressure  here  is  the  boiler. How  stable  can  I  make  that? That's  like,  the  first  thing.  So  how  hot? How  much  pressure  can  this  handle? The  second  thing  is,  will my  blades  melt,  right? Will  I  be  able  to  run a  steam  or  something  through  that that  doesn't  absolutely  destroy  my  system? So  the  combination  of  those  two  things, I  believe  it's  the  boilers that  actually  set  the  limit at  the  moment  for  water. But  there  will  be  an  upper  limit that  you  can  handle,  and  that  will  be  set. Okay,  but  there's  another  approach,  okay? So  if  we  say  that  the  materials  and  all of  that  can  handle  only, you  know,  an  upper  pressure  and an  upper  temperature  associated  with  them. One  thing  you  can  do  is  to run  what's  called  a  rank  and  reheat. So  essentially,  you  take the  steam  leaving  the  original  turbine, as  I  would  show  in  State  four  here, and  you  run  it  through the  boiler  again,  okay? So  you  run  it  through  the  boiler  again, that  comes  back  out, and  you  run  it  then  through  that  enters in  a  lower  pressure  turbine, and  you  try  to eke  more  work  out  of  it  that  way. So  this  process  is  called a  reheat,  a  reheat  process. Okay?  We  talked  about  regeneration, which  I'll  do  in  the  next  example. This  one  is  a  reheat  there,  right? And  hopefully  it's  clear why  you  would  do  that  from a  TS  diagram,  right? So  here  I  went  to that  higher  pressure  and  temperature. I  dropped  it  down,  right, with  my  work  extraction until  I  was  a  saturated  vapor, and  then  I  reheated  it  again. But  this  pressure  is  going  to  be  lower. P  five  here  is  going  to  be  less  than  P  three. I'm  showing  the  isobars  here, but  it  still  has  that  upper temperature  limit  with  it,  right? I  that  boiler,  I'm  not  going to  get  a  higher  temperature. I  can  only  get  the  max  temperature again,  and  then  it  drops  back  down. But  you  have  that  extra,  you  know, slice  of  area  enclosing  that  curve, and  that  gives  you  a  boost,  okay? So  let's  reheat  reheat. All  right.  So  what  I'm  going  to do  now  is  I'll  go  through  this  analysis. We'll  go  through  the  analysis  of  this  one. How  do  you  do  reheat. Yeah,  and  the  work  that's  in  my  lab, we  work  basically  on  coatings  and stuff  to  prevent  fouling  that happens  on  the  inside  of  these  and corrosion  on  the  inside  of  these  tubes. So  if  you're  ever  interested in  seeing  that,  let  me  know. I  can  put  you  in  contact  with the  researchers  who  actually  do  the  work. Okay.  All  right,  so  the  ideal  reheat. Let  me  see.  This  one's still  okay?  It's  okay  ish. I  Alright,  so  what  do  we  have  here? So  we  have  first, we  have  our  pump. So  we  have  a  pump  that's  here. This  is  going  into  our  boiler, which  looks  like  this. This  goes  out,  and  then into  a  high  pressure  turbine,  just  like  that. This  is  connected  in  series  then  to a  low  pressure  turbine, which  looks  like  that. And  then  this  is  my  W  dot  out, which  is  happening  there. This  enters  into  The  boiler here  goes  back  out  and  then  becomes the  inlet  to  the  low  pressure  turbine. Exit  of  this  then passes  through  the  surface  condenser, just  like  the  one  that  I  showed  you,  right? And  then  this  goes  back  into  the  pump,  right? So  this  has  aw.in  Here, we  have  aq.in,  which  is  here. We  have  the  W  dot  out,  which  is  there, and  we  have  a  Q  dot  out, which  is  happening  from  the  condenser. We  label  states,  the  state  at the  exit  of  the  condenser  is  state  one, State  two  is  entering  the  boiler. State  three  is  exiting  the  boiler. This  is  just  as  we  did  for  Rankin. State  four  is  the  exiting of  the  first  turbine, and  then  this  is  where  we start  to  have  differences. State  five  is  then  at the  exit  of  the  reheat  process. State  six  is  then  at the  exit  of  the  low  pressure  turbine. So  one,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six, so  two  additional  states  to  do  reheat. All  right?  What  are  we  given  in  the  problem? So  we  can  start  with  our  state  five. It's  a  state  Um,  our  state  five. So  we're  told  four  or  state  three. Let's  start  with  State  three. State  three  is  given,  right? So  our  state  three,  we  know  that  we have  a  T  three  that's equal  to  315  degrees  Celsius, and  we  have  a  P  three  that's  equal  to 4.14  MPA,  all  right? And  that's  the  nor,  right? So  you  typically  in these  problems  are  going  to  be  given the  exit  state  of  the  boiler. That's  like  automatic,  all  right? And  out  of  this,  all  right, um,  Well,  of  course, no  specific enthropy  and  specific  entropy  there. It's  a  pure  substance, two  pieces  of  two  independent  properties because  it's  a  superheated  vapor, temperature  and  pressure  work, so  we  have  complete  knowledge  there. All  right.  Next  thing  that's  given. We  can  get  to  state  I'm going  to  go  to  state  five  here. Okay.  And  state  five, again,  essentially  exit  of  the  boiler. We  know  that  T  five  here  is  315  degrees  C, just  like  T  three  because  it's passing  through  the  same  boiler. But  the  pressure  is  going  to  be  less,  right, because  this  has  already  passed  through, right? It's  expanded  through the  um  first  turbine  here, so  the  pressure  is  going  to  be  less. P  five  is  going  to  be  less  than  P  three, and  the  pressure  we're  told  here  is  1.38  PA. And  the  same,  we  know  H  five, and  we  know  S  five  there.  All  right. Good  what  else  do  we  know? Basically,  state  six,  State  six, we're  told  the  pressure  at the  exit  of  the  second  turbine, the  low  pressure  turbine, that's  0.069  PA. Okay,  Good. And  so  what  we  can  do  is  we  can go  device  by  device, essentially  do  our  mass, energy  and  entropy  analysis for  these  individual  control  volumes. From  that,  we'll  be  able  to  say things  like  how  much  energy  is  in  or  out, how  much  entropy  changes  with  that. And  then  with  those  parameters, we'll  come  back  to  states. And  then  once  we  have  the  states, we'll  have  our  enthalpies. We'll  go  back  and  substitute  numbers  and be  able  to  say  how  much  heat was  added  or  rejected, and  then  the  thermal  efficiency  of  the  cycle. So  let's  start  drawing  some  control  volumes. Alright.  Okay.  All  right, so  our  first  one  is  with  our  pump. So  we  have  a  control  volume  for  our  pump. We  have  our  control  volume  for  the  boiler, control  volume  for  high  pressure  turbine, control  volume  for  low  pressure  turbine, and  then  the  control  volume for  the  condenser. All  right.  Do  do  do.  All  right. So  if  we  go  with  our  pump, so  if  we  start  with  one  to  two,  and  our  pump. So  we  have  work  in. So  we  have a  steady  flow  device  for  all  of  these,  right? Delta  M,  CV  is  equal  to  zero,  Delta  E, CV  is  equal  to  zero,  and  Delta  S, CV  is  equal  to  zero  for  all of  these  devices,  right? So  for  the  pump,  we  only  have  work  in, okay?  We're  neglecting,  right? So  Delta  KE  is  equal  to  Delta  PE, which  is  equal  to  zero  for all  these  devices,  all  right? And  so  what  you'll  have  then  is, um,  All  right, m.in  equals  M  dot  out  equals  to  m  dot. And  so  for  here,  the  work that's  going  to  go  in  is  then  going  to be  H  two  minus  H  one,  right? If  we  do  an  entropy  balance  here, I'll  do  it  for  this  one,  and  then  I'll just  skip  through  it  for  the  others,  right? But  ds  cv  dt  is  equal  to.in  minus  rs  dot  out, S  dot  out  plus  rs  dot  gen. So  steady  flow  device? So  this  is  gone. Um,  and  because  this  is an  ideal  reheat  rank  and  cycle, what  that  means  for  work  transfer  processes is  that  these  are adiabatic  and  they're  reversible. So  what  do  you  think  that means  for  this  formula? What  simplification  do  I  make  if  I have  something  that's adiabatic  and  reversible, Zs  dot  gen  is  gone,  right? And  so  the  reason  for  this  is  adiabatic. And  reversible  reversible,  all  right? And  the  keyword  for this  for  work  transfer  things is  that  you  see  the  word  ideal,  okay? So  ideal  means  that work  transfer  devices  are  isentropic. And  the  meaning  of  isentropic  is  that it's  adiabatic  and  reversible. Adiabatic  means  no  heat  in  or  out. Reversible  means,  as  I  run  it, I  don't  generate  friction,  right? Essentially,  I  don't  generate  heat. That's  the  meaning  of  that,  all  right? Okay,  so  out  of  this, right,  I  can  write  M  dot. N  is  dot  out,  right? So.in  times  little  S  N is  equal  to  my  dot  out  times  little  S  out. M.in  is  M  dot  out,  right,  that's  gone. And  so  what  it  means  is  S  in  is  S  out. So  S  one  is  equal  to little  S  one  is  equal  to  little  S  two,  okay? So  now  we  know  something  about  state, um  Right? Now  we  know  basically  something  about state  state  two,  right? So  we  have  here  state  can  write  state  two. So  here  I'm  saying  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one, okay?  Great.  All  right. On  to  our  next  device. So  I  will  not  go  as  detailed for  the  next  one, but  for  the  next  one,  two  to  three. So  I'm  looking  at  my  control  volume. Maybe  I  should  spend a  little  bit  more  time  with  that. So  now  we  have  two  or what  I  would  call  essentially  what  is  it? It's  two  to  three,  and  then  it's also  four  to  five,  all  right? Four  to  five  is  the  boiler. All  right,  so  I  look  at  the  control  volume. It's  steady  flow,  right? MDT  in  is  MDT  out  of  that  control  volume. And  so  We  have  the  dot, the  way  that  energy  is  entering, I  have  dot  times  two  plus m  dot  times  H  four  must  be  equal to  plus.in  q.in  is then  equal  to  the  way  that  it  exits. Mm  dot  times  three, plus  dot  times  H five  to  do  we're  not going  to  do  we're  not  going  to  do an  entropy  analysis  on  the  boiler  here. Good.  What's  next? Let  me  just  check  my  notes, make  sure  I'm  on  track. Do.  Other  questions  so  far?  Mmm. Okay.  We  can  write  this in  for  the  rate of  heat  addition  and  heat  rejection. What  I  have  in  my  solution  is  we  solve  for. So  what  I  can  do  is  I  can  divide both  sides  by  dot. If  I  did  that,  I'll  have  H two  plus  four  plus  little  Q  in,  right? So  heat  per  unit  mass  is then  equal  to  H  three  plus  H  five. So  then  little  Q  in  is  then  equal  to H  three  plus  five  minus  H  two  plus  four. I  swear  I  read  this  thing, and  then  geez  too  many  pages. Yeah,  H  three  plus H  five  minus  H  two  minus  H  four. Okay,  that's  great.  So  that's  good. Now  we  can  go  on  to  more  familiar  things. So  then  three  to  five  is  our  turbine. So  we  have  no  work  in. We  have  no  heat  in  or  out, neglecting  changes  in potential  kinetic  energy. So  W  dot  out  of  our  turbine  is dot  times  this  is  three  to  four, sorry,  three  to  43  to  four  H three  minus  H  four. That's  very  good.  The  second  turbine. So  our  next  turbine, which  is  then  five  to  four. So  we  have  five  to  six. If  there's  questions. Okay.  Five  to  six. So  then  the  W  dot out  of  this  lower  pressure  turbine, maybe  I'll  call  it  I  don't  know. Maybe  I  can  call  that  two, maybe  I'll  call  that  one. But  the  W  dot  out  of  this  one  is then  m.h5  minus  six. What  we  can  do  for  both  of these  cases  is  also  the  entropy  analysis. So  no  change  in  the  control  volume, adiabatic  reversible  because  it's  ideal. So  what  it  means  then  is the  same  thing  here,  S  four. Little  four  is  going to  be  equal  to  little  S  three, and  the  same  for  the  other  one  little  S six  is  going  to  be equal  to  little  S  five  there,  right? So  that's  isomropic. And  then  our  last  one  is  then  our  condenser. So  it's  condenser. We  don't  have  work  in  or  out. We  have  no  heat  in. We  only  have  heat  out,  right? So  we  do  our  then  this  is  six  to  one. So  six  to  one,  our  condenser, our  Q  dot  out  is  going  to  be  equal  to M  dot  times  the  enthalpy  at  state  six, a  six  minus  the  enthalpy  at  state  one,  okay? Great.  Let  us  I will  move  this  to  this  side  here. I  will  bring  back  my  estates  here, and  I  will  move  this  one  into  the  middle. And  now  we  can  go  bit  by bit  and  map  out  our  estates, now  that  we  have enough  information  there,  alright? Okay,  so  we  have  State  three, which  we  know  this  is  an  important  part  of analyzing  these  things  is figuring  out where  you  have  complete  information. So  you  start  from  these  points. Alright, so  it's  state  three  entering  the  turbine. I'm  I'm  good  there. I  go  down  to  state  four. So  state  State  four. I  know  that  this  turbine operates  isentropically,  right? So,  S  is  equal  to  S  three. Trying  to  see  how  that  looks. Maybe  I'll  go  full  screen  here.  All  right. And  as  far  as  S  three, what  else  do  you  think  you  know  about  State four  based  on  what  I've  drawn here?  Hazard  a  guess. Quality,  no,  Cody. Sure.  That's  it.  Look  ahead. Look  backwards,  but  also  look  forwards. Normally,  I  say  don't  look  backwards  in  life, but  in  Rankin,  look backwards  and  forwards  like  Cody  said. Basically,  your  pressure  here  because you're  passing  through  a  heat  exchanger, P  four  is  equal to  P  five  and  P  five  is  given. This  is  equal  to  1.38  PA. This  is  good.  Now  I  know my  or  I  know  my  four  here. That's  good.  State  five  is  given. We  come  to  state  six  now. State  six  from  what  we  wrote over  there  is  that  S  is  equal  to  S  five. So  S  is  equal  to  S  five, and  S  five,  we  determined  here. So  now  you  have  complete  information. You  can  get  the  enthalpy at  state  six  for  this. We're  good.  Continuing  along, now  we're  at  we're  at  state  one. This  is  State  State  one. At  state  one,  because a  condenser  is  a  glorified  heat  exchanger, P  one  is  equal  to  P  six  is  equal  to 0.069  PA.  That's  good. What  else  do  you  know  about  the  condenser? Yeah.  Elias.  And  the  quality  is  zero. That's  it,  right?  The  quality  is  zero  here. So  X  one  is  equal to  zero  because  it's  a  condenser. That's  a  part  about  a  Rankin. Okay,  I  remember  that. And  with  this,  you  have S  one  and  you  have  H  one. So  now  I  have  state  one, okay?  Continuing  along. I'm  looking  at  it.  I  got three,  four,  five,  six. I  almost  got  a  bingo  here. Actually,  that  I  have  a  bingo, but  I  need  an  extra  one  for  a  reheat. So  the  last  part  is  that  I  know  an  OS  one at  state  two  because  the  pump operates  isentropically. I  know  this  um a  specific  entropy  at  state  two. And  like  Cody  had  said, because  of  boiler  is  a  heat  exchanger, I  know  that  P  two,  if  I  look  ahead, is  equal  to  P  three,  and  that's  a  given. That's  given  as  4.14 PA.  And  so  what that  means  is  that  I  have  H  two. Right?  So  all  I  need  to  determine the  heat  additions  and  the  heat and  the  heat  rejections,  I've  got. So  I've  got  my  I  guess  going  in  order,  right? I  have  H  one,  right? I  have  my  age  two,  I  have  my  age  three, I  have  my  age  four, I  have  my  age  five, and  I  have  my  age  six,  okay? So  let's  get  into  it.  We're  given  the  power. So  we're  given  that  the  w.net, which  is  equal  to  the  w.in minus  the  W  dot  out, um,  which  is,  of  course, also  equal  to  q.in, I'm  sorry,  W  dot  out. Excuse  me.  It's  Friday  W  dot  out. W  dot  N  is  equal  to  q.in  minus  Q  dot  out, which  is  equal  to  5  megawatts,  right? 5  megawatts.  All  right. I  This  is  good. This  means  that  I  have  dot  times  little  W  out minus  little  W  in  is  equal  to the  dot  of  Q  in  minus  little  Q  out. Okay,  um,  four. So  it  depends  on  what  we  could  do. I  would  say,  in  this  case, since  it's  asking  us  for  the heat  addition  and  rejection, we  can  focus  on  the  Q  in. So  our  Q  in  was  an  dot  times  what? Our  little  Q  in  we  wrote  over  there was  not  an  M  dot. It  was  H  three  plus  H five  minus  H  two  plus  H  four. I've  got  that.  That's  good. The  little  Q  out  All  right. Where  do  we  write  it? That  would  be  H  six  minus  H  one. Okay?  That's  good. So  now  what  you  would  do  is substitute  those  values  use Pi  calorie.  You  got  those  values. You'll  take  this  Q  in, you'll  put  it  into  here, you'll  take  this  Q  out, you'll  put  it  into  here,  you'll  set  this equal  to  5  megawatts. And  from  this,  you'll know  the  mass  flow  rate,  right? The  M  dot,  okay? And  then  by  knowing  the  dot,  right? You  can  take  the  dot. Substitute  into  there. That's  Q  dot  out, and  then  my  q.in,  which  I'll  write  here  then. So  then  my  q.in  is nothing  but  my  dot  times  my  Q  in,  right? So  this  dot  would  then  come  here. You  would  substitute. You  put  your  Q  in  there, and  then  you  would  have  the  Q  in  and the  Q  out.  That's  good. And  the  thermal  efficiency  is  nothing  but one  minus  Q  dot  out  over  q.in, or  in  this  case,  you  could  also  write  that  as one  minus  little  Q out  over  little  Q  in,  okay? If  you  want  some  numbers, I  have  some  numbers. At  least  I  have  a  number for  the  efficiency  of  this, given  the  parameters. The  efficiency  that  I  have, if  you  substitute  in  is  that Ea  I  have  an  Eta  that's  equal  to  27.9%. It's  a  little  bit on  a  little  on  the  lower  side. And  then  I  find  it  always  instructive  at these  points  to  compare with  what  I  would  have  as  Carne. So  if  you  want  to  compare this  then  with  Carnot, Carnot  is  equal  to one  minus  the  coldest  temperature divided  by  the  hottest temperature  of  the  cycle. So  you  would  have  that  from  um, the  temperature  at  state  one  and the  temperature  then  at  state  three. And  if  you  put  that  in, the  absolute  maximum  efficiency this  cycle  could  have  would  then  be  38.4%. Okay? Questions,  Elias. Two  to  three.  On  the  far  right. So  all  I  said  is  that  for the  so  you  mean this  line  here.  How  did  I  write  this? Like  just  so  I  understand, your  question  is  how  did  I  get  to  this?  Yeah. I  don't  have  two  to  three,  right? I  have  two,  three, four  and  five,  right? Yeah.  So  there's  no  six. Yeah.  The  point  is  that  you  have  to  draw a  control  volume  around  the  heat  exchanger. And  what  you  do  is  you  think  about  how  is energy  entering  and leaving  this  control  volume? What  are  the  inlets  to this  control  volume?  That's  it. So  I'm  going  to  have  an.h4  plus  an m.h2  plus  a  Q dot  N.  That's  what's entering.  What's  leaving? M.h3+m.h5. Okay?  And  that's  what  I've  written  here. So  this  is  what's  entering and  this  is  what's  leaving. I  divide  both  sides  by  M  dot. H  two,  H  four  Qn  little  QN  H  three,  H  five. Reorganize.  This  is  my  QN.  That  makes  sense? Okay.  But  that's  an  especially  critical  part of  control  volume  analysis. If  you  didn't  know  how  to  do  that well  in  your  fundamentals, you  would  not  do  this  problem  well,  right? Yes,  please,  David.  The  arrows? Yeah.  I  will  probably  give  you words  and  then  tell  you  to  work  it  out. Really  an  important  part  of this  class,  I  don't  groan. You  can  groan.  It's  First  Amendment  groan. But  the  point  out  of this  class  is  really  that I  give  you  almost  like  a  prompt, and  the  reply  is  this, you  should  be  able  to  do  that,  okay? Yes,  please.  But  if  I  draw  a  diagram, certainly  at  least  numerically, I  would  give  you  numbers  and  then  you  can go,  in  numerical  order. Yes,  please. Let's  focus  on  the  first  one. 2-3,  we  treat  it  as  a  heat  exchanger. And  when  I  do  heat  additions, there  may  be  a  pressure  difference, but  that  contribution  in  terms  of an  energy  difference  is  negligible compared  to  how  much  heat  I'm  adding. We  say  that  2-3, it's  isobaric  constant  pressure. Good.  4-5,  I  run pipes  into  that,  they  communicate. It's  diathermal. I  can  transfer  heat  in, but  they  don't  communicate in  terms  of  pressure. So  H  four  is  not  the  same as  H  three  or  H  two,  okay? All  I'm  saying  is  that  I'm  adding  heat  4-5, and  4-5,  it's  the  same  pressure. So  four  to  five,  I have  the  same  pressure,  okay? Again,  because  it's  a  heat  exchanger, and  for  heat  exchangers, from  the  inlet  to  the  outlet, we  assume  in  this  class,  no  pressure  drop. No  pressure  drops,  one  oh  six. Yes,  please,  Cody. If  we  were  not  given, would  we  be  able  to  make  the  assumption  that saturated  If  I  don't have  the  pressure  at  state  three, I  don't  believe  I  can  solve  this  problem. I  need  really  a  firm  state to  start  with  and  then  use this  isentropic  assumptions  because basically  by  having  state  three, I  know  the  pressure  at  state  two. And  by  assuming  the  pump  is  isentropic, I  know  that  the  specific  entropy here  is  the  same  as  here. It's  like  with  the  pressure  here  and assuming  this  isentropic,  I  know  state  two. I  was  just  saying  there's  that doesn't  solve  just  want  to know  that saturated  At  the  exit  of  a  condenser, it's  a  saturated  liquid. I'm  telling  you  that that's  best  practice,  right? No,  it  will  be  compressed,  right? You  can't  see  it  on  this  diagram, but  you  would  see  it  here. One  to  two  here  is I  am  increasing  my  pressure, which  means  that  I'm  moving  more  into  this. This  is  an  exaggeration,  though,  right? It's  an  incompressible  substance. So  when  I  put  that  work  in, not  much  really  changes  there. That's  why  when  I  plot  it  on  a  real  plot, you  can't  see  the  difference  1-2. They  pretty  much  are  on  top  of  each  other. But  it  is  a  little  bit  away from  the  saturated  liquid  line. Okay? Other  questions?  Yes,  please. This  determines  the  limit. The  limit  is  Carne. You  cannot  do  better  than  Carne. All  we're  doing  with these  tricks  and  stuff is  essentially  extending, we're  extending  basically  the  temperature where  we  transfer  heat  in,  right? So  one  way  to  view  this  is  by  doing this  process  of  the  zigzag  here,  excuse  me. I'm  transferring  heat  in  from a  higher  temperature  compared  to  here,  right? So  basically, the  average  temperature  where  I'm transferring  heat  into  this  cycle is  higher  because  I'm  doing  this. That's  the  trick.  Or,  like  I  said  before, lowering  the  temperature where  transfer  heat  out. But  at  the  end  of  it,  everything is  limited  by  Carne. So  you'll  never  be  able  to do  better  than  38.4%. Seems  like  a  pretty  bad  grade,  huh? I  don't  want  to  take  that  class.  Alright,  I'm going  to  start  erasing and  then  go  on,  alright? I  have  taken  those  kinds of  classes,  but  yeah. Alright.  Um  do  do  do. So  when  you  see  this,  it  looks  cumbersome, but  step  by  step,  like  a  marathon. If  you  think  about the  whole  thing,  you'll  shut  down. But  if  you  see  it  and  you  stick  to fundamentals  and  just  remember it's  one  step  at  a  time, everything  is  possible,  okay? And  just  like  a  marathon, don't  go  too  fast  at  the  beginning, you  know,  you  can  trip.  Alright. Okay. Okay.  Great. All  right.  So  that  was  reheat,  okay? And  again,  the  whole  point was  extending  that  region where  we  transfer  the  heat in  from  a  higher  temperature. We  can  also  do  regeneration,  all  right? And  remember,  in  regeneration, the  whole  point  of regeneration  is  I  want  to  increase the  temperature  of  my  fluid before  dumping  heat  into  it,  right? I  want  the  temperature  at the  inlet  to  my  boiler  to  be  higher,  right? In  Brighton,  that's  what  we  did,  right? We  tried  to  increase  the  temperature of  the  fluid  prior  to  entering the  combustor  by  warming it  up  with  exhaust  gases,  all  right? That's  what  we  did. So  this  is  what  it  looks  like, one  way  it  can  look  like  for a  ranking  cycle,  right? So  let's  start  from let's  start  from  the  second  pump,  okay? So  the  second  pump, that's  not  too  dissimilar, except  that  it's  state  four  now,  but  fine. So  I  leave  the  pump,  I  go  into  my  boiler, I  pass  through  my  turbine,  all  right? And  what  you  have  here  at the  turbine  is  you  have  two  exits,  two  exits. One  that  goes  to  the  condenser. Passes  through  the  pump  and goes  into  the  box  and  then  continues. And  then  another  one  at  state  six, which  does  not  pass  through  the  condenser, which  means  that  it  stays  warm? So  you  bleed  off  some  of  the  steam  from the  turbine  and  you  mix  it with  you  mix  it  with  some  of  the, the  compressed  water  that's coming  out  of  the  first  pump. This  is  an  open  feed  water  heater, okay?  And  they  mix. We  haven't  done  this, I  think,  really  much  in  this  class, but  this  is  a  case  where I  have  two  streams  in, they  mix  and  there's  one  leaving,  all  right? Okay.  But  this  one  shouldn't  shock  you. There's  no  work  here  in or  out,  and  it's  adiabatic. What  it  means  is  that  I  have  an  M  dot, some  M  dot  coming  into  here  with  an  enthalpy. I  have  some  M  dot  coming in  here  with  an  enthalpy. The  sum  of  those  two  M  dots  is my  original  M  dot  times  another  enthropy? Um,  So  that's  the  one  thing  that's  new. The  second  thing  that's  new  is the  way  that  we  describe  the  fraction. Let's  say  the  turbine  steady  flow, I  have  some  dot  going  through  my  pump, through  my  boiler,  and  entering  my  turbine. The  way  that  these  problems  are  stated  is that  there's  a  fraction  Y,  let's  say  0-1, a  fraction  that  is  Y of  that  dot  that  goes  here, and  there's  a  fraction  dot  times one  minus  Y  that  goes  into  here,  okay? So  mixing  and  then  fractions  of  mass.  David. Why  do  we  need  a  water  heater? I'm  going  to  show  you. Okay.  I'll  show  you.  Okay. Yeah,  and so  this  is  what  the  cycle  looks  like. If  you  were  to  shot  on  a  TS  diagram, you  have  one  to  two  to well,  let's  focus  on  this,  right? So  if  I  had  just  the  normal  three,  four, five,  you  know,  let's  say,  three,  four,  571. So  that's  the,  you  know, cycle  that  essentially  looks  like  that. The  new  thing  is  then  the three  to  six  that  you, um,  that  you  have,  okay? But  remember,  the  whole  point  of  this, David,  is  that  I,  through  this  process, want  to  increase  the  temperature at  state  four  before I  start  dumping  heat  into  it. So  the  whole  point  is  that,  like, when  I  do  my  heat  addition  from  my  boiler, I  don't  want  to  dump  it  in  at a  temperature  at  state  two,  which  is  low. I'd  love  to  dump  it  into something  that's  at  state  four, which  is  warmer,  okay? So  that's  why  we  do  it.  Yes,  please. Will  you  be  able  to  change the  condenser  to  adjust  the  temperature? I'm  not  sure  I  understand  the  question. Say  it  again. Um  Okay.  All  right. So  I  will  speed through  this  one,  but  in  short, right,  we  can  go step  by  step  here  through  the  problem. Maybe  I'll  just  jump to  this  in  the  interest  of  time. So  what  you  have  All  right, so  let's  go  to  what's  given. What's  given  is  that  the  quality  at the  exit  of the  open  feed  water  heater  is  zero. So  it's  a  saturated  liquid  there. To  Cody's  point.  So  why  is  that? Because  at  state  two,  I am  not  saturated  anymore,  right? I  have  compressed  that  liquid  there. And  so  when  I  mix  it  then with  this  warmer  steam, what's  going  to  exit  is  then a  saturated  liquid,  okay? So  that's  one  thing. So  the  saturated  liquid, we  know  State  five, so  at  the  exit  of  the  boiler,  right, we  have  complete  information  there. Good.  We're  told  the  pressure  at the  exit  of  the  turbine prior  to  entering  the  condenser. So  we're  given  that. And  we're  also  given  the  pressure. Of  the  let's  say  the  bleed  line. So  basically  the  steam that  we're  bleeding  off, we're  also  given  that  pressure. And  we  know  because  this  is  a  condenser, at  state  one,  we  are  a  saturated  liquid. And  this  is  allowed,  right, X  three  and  X  one  are  allowed  to  be zero  because  of  the  fact that  I  transfer  work  here, and  I'm  compressing  the  liquid,  okay? So  at  state  two,  I  am  not  a  saturated  liquid. And  what  you  want  to  determine  here  is the  fraction  of  the  steam that  you  have  to  take  off, that  you  have  to  bleed  out  of the  turbine  Y,  okay? And  then  what  is  the  thermal efficiency  of  this  cycle? What  assumptions  do  you  make,  okay? So  we  can  start  with doing  the  analysis  of  the  turbine,  okay? So  it's  an  ideal  regenerative. This  means  that  the  turbine is  adiabatic  and  reversible. It  means  that  the  entropy  at  the  exit  of the  turbine  is  the  same  as  the  inlet. So  S  six  is  S  five, and  S  seven  is  also  S  five,  okay? But  they're  two  different  states because  they  have  two  different  pressures. But  you  know  state  six  and you  know  state  seven,  okay? Because  you  know  state  seven,  you know  the  pressure  at  state  seven,  right? Condenser  is  a  heat  exchanger, so  P  one  is  equal  to  p7x1  was  given. Now  I  know  state  one,  all  right? Okay.  This  open  feed  water  heater,  right? It's  a  mixing  chamber,  right? Just  like  a  heat  exchanger, there  are  not  going  to  be  pressure  drops across  these  devices,  right? So  because  I  know the  pressure  because  I know  state  six  and  another  pressure, I'm  going  to  know  the  pressure  at state  three  at  the  exit, and  I'm  also  going  to  know  the  pressure at  the  inlet,  the  other  inlet. So  P  two  is  also  P  six,  right? Because  the  pump  is  isentropic, S  two  is  S  one,  now  I  know  state  two. Because  we  were  given  X  three, and  now  we  know  P  three  from this,  you  know  state  three. If  you  go  on  to  state  four, the  pump  operates  isentropically  S four  is  S  three. Because  the  boiler  is  a  heat  exchanger, P  four  is  equal  to  P  five. So  now  I  got  state  four. State  five  was  given. I  know  all  of  my  states. I  have  all  of  my  states  here  now. What  I  will  write  out, and  I'll  spend  time  in  is the  analysis  of  the  open  feed  water  heater. So  the  open  feed  water  heater looks  like  this.  All  right. And  this  is  important  to  be  able  to  define. So  I  have  one  inlet, I  have  another  inlet,  and  I  have  one  outlet. This  is  adiabatic, and  there's  no  work  transfer, all  right?  So  let's  look  at  this. I  have  here,  state  six, which  is  entering,  right? I  have  a  let's  do  our  mass  balance  first. So  the  mass  balance  here  is  I  have an  M  dot  times Y.  I  have  an  M  dot  times one  minus  Y  entering, and  then  here  I  have  an  M  dot. Conservation  of  mass. The  same  thing  now for  conservation  of  energy, okay?  Right? So  neglecting  kinetic  energy and  potential  energy  changes in  this  process,  right? I  have  an  M  dot  times  Y  times  H  six, which  carries  me  in  an  M  dot  times  one  minus Y  times  H  two,  which  is  carrying  me  in. And  then  I  have  an  M  dot  times H  three,  which  is  out. So  this  plus  this must  equal  to  this.  All  right? O.  So  dot  times Y  six  plus  dot  times  one  minus Y  times  H  two must  be  equal  to  m  dot  times  H  three. Our  dots  are  going  to  drop,  okay? And  so  what  we  will  have  is Y  age  six  plus  H two  minus  Y  H  two  is  a  three. We  reorganize  for  Y, Y  times  age  six  minus  H  two is  equal  to  age  three  minus  H  two, Y  is  equal  to  H three  minus  H  two divided  by  age  six  minus  H  two. Because  I  know  all  my  states, I  can  solve  for  this  Y  here,  okay? Good.  Let  me  go  back. The  thermal  efficiency  of  this  cycle is  going  to  be  the  same  as every  other  one  that  we've  done,  right? The  heat  in,  right, one  minus  Q  out  divided  by  Q  in,  right? You  would  know  the  Q  out,  right? Essentially,  you'd  have  dot, one  minus  Y  times  H  seven  minus  H  one,  okay? And  your  heat  in  is  going  to be  dot,  just  dot, and  that's  going  to  be  times H  five  minus  H  four,  okay? Are  there  questions  about  this? I  hope  the  only  radical  thing  I said  here  was  about the  mixing  chamber,  but  with  this, you're  able  to  define  the  why, and  then  that's the  one  thing  that  was  different compared  to  the  other  problems. All  right.  That's  what  it  looks  like on  a  TS  diagram. That's  what  it  would  look  like on  a  PV  diagram. With  this,  you  should  be  able  to  analyze these  regenerative  and  reheat  power  cycles. We'll  continue  with  our  last  one  there. After  the  next  lecture, that  closes  Module  two, and  that's  all  the  material  that you're  responsible  for  on  Qiz  two. If  you  have  questions,  I'm  up  here. Otherwise,  have  a  wonderful  weekend.
