So  today,  we're  going  to  talk about  gas  mixtures. I  don't  have  much  to  say  in  terms  of  slides, we're  just  going  to  work  through  problems. Basically,  one  of  them  is  going  to  be about  separation  work  and  mixtures, so  we'll  start  with  a  more  difficult  one, and  then  the  first  time,  we'll work  with  the  other  one. You  can  ask  yourself,  why  do  you  care about  separating  mixtures?  All  right? So  there's  two  probably  important  examples. One  is  clean  water. So  if  you  look  at  you know,  freshwater,  let's  say, production,  quite  a  lot  of  it in  the  future  is  envisioned  to be  done  from  desalination. So  you  think  about  taking,  you  know, sort  of  coastal  regions  like California,  and,  you  know, you  put  in  electricity  and work  and  you  separate the  saltwater  into  freshwater  and  brine. My  understanding  is  the  place that  has  the  most  of  this  in  the  world, does  the  most  of  this  in  Saudi  Arabia  and run  a  process  called  reverse  osmosis. Imagine  you  have  a  membrane  that's permeable  to  water  and  not  the  ions, and  you  basically  put  a  lot  of pressure  and  you  push  through  it, and  the  place  that  is  the  second most  is  here  in  the  United  States,  right? And  that's  an  important  technology  now, but  also  looking  to  the  future,  right? So  we  can  talk  about  this  problem. So  that's  the  problem of  basically  producing  it. You  can  also  think  of  the  other  side, which  is  that  imagine  that  you have  Maybe  I'll  get  the  colors  right  here. Imagine  that  you  have  a I  don't  know,  some  coast  here. This  is  your  ocean.  All  right. And  let's  say  this  is  a  top  view,  right? And  then  imagine  here,  you  have  a  river,  r? Maybe  that's  melt  water  from  the  mountains, you  have  freshwater  that comes  in  and  you  mix.  All  right? And  so  on  this  problem,  what  we're going  to  look  at  is, what  if  you  were  to  take  advantage  of  that to  produce  electricity,  okay? So  you  have  here  something that's  freshwater,  right? So  fresh  fresh  water, and  then  here  the  ocean,  which  is  saltwater. You'll  see  different  words,  maybe sometimes  called  saline  there. If  you  want  to  know how  much  salt  there  is,  again, my  understanding  is  that you're  talking  about  something  in the  neighborhood  of three  weight  percent  sodium chloride  in  water,  right? Cool.  All  right. The  technology.  So  we  won't  talk  too much  about  the  technology  in  this  analysis. I'll  just  say  a  few  words  at  the  beginning. But  the  idea  is  that  if  you start  to  mix  these  things  to  get. Like  if  you  just  took  this  and  you  mix  it, you're  not  going  to  get  anything,  right? You're  gonna  create  entropy, it's  going  to  be  a  disaster. But  if  you  mix  these  things in  intelligent  ways, you  can  create  either  high  pressure, high  static  pressure,  which is  what  the  trees  do,  right? So  you  think  about a  tree  right  in  the  root  system, they're  permeable  to water  impermeable  to  sugar. So  essentially,  the  water  keeps trying  to  pump  itself  into  the  roots, creating  higher  pressure,  and  then  moving  it. There's  also  sort  of  evaporation effects  that  draw  the  liquid  up, but  that's  how  trees  do  it. The  technology  where  you might  take  advantage  of  that here  is  called  pressure  retarded  osmosis. Pro.  There,  that's  an  old  one. The  other  one  that  you  can look  at  for  mixing, if  you  want  to  Google  is  called  RED. Reverse  electrodialysis. In  short,  you  have  membranes  put  in parallel  that  are  called  ionic  and  anionic. One  is  permeable  to  sodium, the  other  to  chlorine,  chlorine  there. And  essentially,  these  things will  diffuse  sort  of  against  each  other, create  a  potential  there which  can  be  put  into  work. Why  would  anyone  think  of  doing  this? Because  most  renewable  energies are  intermittent,  right? You  think  about  solar  energy. You  think  about  wind. But  technologies  like  this don't  really  they're  not  really affected  sort  of  at  the  daily at  the  daily  level,  right? So  they're more  robust  technology  that  therefore, you  know,  maybe  you  don't  need batteries  then  to  run  it. There  were  some  plants that  were  done  with  this. So  if  you  look  to  Scandinavia, there  were  at  least  one  power  plant that  ran  on  either  Pro  or  RED. I  can't  remember  which  ones. Remember  Pro  is  basically  how  the  trees  work. And  then  RED  is  like a  sophisticated  electrochemical  system. But  the  name  of  the  game  is  what you  want  to  quantify  is, what  is  the  change  in  properties,  right? The  change  in  entro  P,  in  this  case, from  the  initial  state,  which  is unmixed  to  the  final  state when  it's  mixed,  okay? Because  if  we  understand  that,  right? So  if  you  understand  that  change  in entropy  of  that  process,  All  right. Change  in  the  entropy  of  that  process. The  exergy  that  we destroy  is  going  to  be  nothing  but the  temperature  that  we  do  that at  times  that  change  in S.  And  if  we  have  a  system  like  this, where,  you  know,  we're  not  doing  any  work with  this  system  at  the  moment,  right? We're  just  mixing.  All  right, then  essentially  the  reversible  work, is  going  to  basically  be  equal,  in  this  case, then  to  the  exergy  that  we  destroy. So,  you'll  be  able through  this  analysis  to  get a  sense  at  what  level, you  know,  how  much  power, how  much  work  is  potentially available  if  you  were  to  go  in  and  install, like  a  pro  or  an  RED  device,  right? So  we're  going  to  go  through  today. I'll  say  a  few  more  words  about  the  system, but  we'll  essentially  talk  about this  entropy  of  mixing,  right? What  the  entropy  of  mixing, All  right, times  the  temperature  of  the  environment. That's  the  gy.  Do  we  destroy, essentially  the  work  potential  that  we  lost. And  then  if  you  were  with  some,  you  know, clever  design, you're  all  very  smart  students. You  know,  to  come  up  with  a  system, then  you  could  see  at  what  level  it's  there. I'm  going  to  tell  you  right  now  that this  kind  of  technology, if  it  was  done  right, can  meet  to  basically  10% of  the  world's  global  electricity  demand. Simple,  like  rivers  running  into  oceans, is  at  about  10%,  right? I  think  global  consumption  is  something  like 26,000  terawatt  hours  of  electricity. So  a  Terawatt,  you  know, so  we've  done  megawatt  gigawatt,  Terawatt. Times,  you  know,  hours. What  do  we  have  24  a  day, 365  days  in  a  year? So  those,  number  of hours  times  the  level of  production  gives  you  terawatt  hour. It's  a  common  unit  of  electricity. If  you  reach  your  electricity  bill, well,  I  don't  know,  here. In  Europe,  yeah,  they  do  it. Here,  it's  like  kilowatt  hours. You  usually  see  it  as. But  in  short,  basically  10% of  that  consumption  could  be  met  if done  right  by  this  simple  mixing  process, right?  Cool. All  right.  So  we're  told with  that  discharge  process. So  we  have  a  mass  flow  rate of  the  river  entering  the  ocean  of 150,000  meters  cubed  per  second. And  like  I  said, we're  told  to  determine, so  determine  basically the  W  dot that  could  be  generated  If the  river  mixes reversibly  with  the  ocean. Okay.  What  you're  told about  the  ocean  is  that  it  is 2.58%  salt  in  water, and  we're  told  to  assume  that  the  temperature of  the  river  is equal  to  the  temperature  of  the  ocean, which  I'm  just  going  to  call  as T  zero  is  equal  to 15  degrees  Celsius,  right? I've  already  gone  through  my  statements about  the  exergy  destruction. But  just  to  maybe make  it  clear,  are  the  questions? Okay.  Just  speak  up  if  you  have  an  issue. But  just  to  remind  you,  right, the  erg  destroyed  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  reversible  work minus  the  W  actual. And  so  in  our  case,  with  our  system, we're  not  doing  any  actual  work. So  when  we  determine  the  erg  destroyed, that's  going  to  be  equal  to  the  revers the  reversible  work  that  could  be  done. All  right?  Okay. So  we  speak  about  the  river here  as  one  component. They're  going  to  basically  take  these  things and  we're  going  to  mix  them. This  is  also  what  Spencer  talked about  when  he  did  the  lecture. But  we  can  talk  about  this  component  here. So  this  component  component. We  could  call  this  as,  let's  say  W,  right? Because  that's  basically  for  water. And  then  we  talk  about  this  component here  in  the  ocean. Which  we  can  say,  let's  say  it's  S  for salt,  for  salt  there. And  what's  important  to  note,  right? When  we  basically  mix  these  things. So  in  sort  of  the  final  mix  state, which  you  want  to  know  is  how  much  of, you  know,  freshwater  is  in  there  versus how  much  of  salt  is  in  there. And  so  for  this,  what  we  can  speak  about then  is  in  the  final  mix  solution, let's  say  here,  because  where  it's  mixing, right  c  here's  the  freshwater. It's  going  into  the  saltwater  in  short. You  know, there's  a  lot  more  ocean  than  there  is, You  know,  river?  So  the  final  state here  is  not  going  to  change  very  much. If  the  ocean  is  on  the  final  mixed  state, we  can  speak  about  the  fraction  of the  ocean  of the  mixed  solution  that  has  the  freshwater. And  right,  this  is  going  to  be  equal  to one  minus  the  fraction  that  is  the  excuse  me, that  is  the  saltwater  there. All  right?  Is  this an  unfamiliar  variable  to  everyone? Why?  Or  It's  unfamiliar. It's  familiar.  Like,  it's  your  buddy, and  you've  thought  about  this, and  you  don't  know. Okay.  So  this  is called  a  mole  fraction,  right? It  says  a  mole  fraction. So  this  is  basically  the  fraction  of  the Is  the  fraction  of  the final  solution  that  has  either, let's  say  fresh  water  in  it  or it  has  salt  in  it,  okay? And  it's  a  mole  fraction.  So  it's basically  the  ratio  of  moles. Which  will  come  to  in a  which  we'll  come  to  in  a  second,  right? The  questions  about  mole  fractions. So  by  definition,  since I  have  this  mole  fraction  and  this  one, they  must  add  up  to  one  or  100%.  Yes? Et  given  the  3%. So  you  are  in  this  problem. So  in  this  problem,  you're  given  the  2.5% here  in  this  problem  here.  You  compare  that. So  I  guess  the  point is  that  I'm  not  sure  if  I  compare, but,  you  know, if  I'm  calling  something  fresh  water, what  I'm  implicitly  saying  there is  that  there's  no  salt  in  it,  right? So  there's  zero,  you  know, salt  that's  in  that  river  that's  entering. And  then  in  the  ocean,  what  I'm saying  is  that  it's  2.5  weight percent  you  know,  salt  in  water. I  think  maybe  it  will  become clear  once  I  work  through  this, but,  yeah.  Other  questions? Clear?  Okay. All  right. And  the  one  form that  I'm  going  to  give  right  now, I'm  just  going  to  give it  to  you  and  then  we'll  work out  through  derivations,  what  it  is. But  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you  right  now is  that  the  little  W, so  the  minimum  work that  you  would  need  to and  I  want  to  start  from  separation. So  based  on  the  minimum  work  that  you  need  to put  in  to  separate. And  The  ocean  into pure  salt  and  into  water  is  equal to  the  negative  of the  universal  gas  constant. So  what  is  this?  The  8.3  and four  times  T  zero,  right? Our  temperature  that's  there. And  then  this  is  times  Y? I  want  to  call  this  for  now. This  is  Y  W.  Natural  log  of  y  W  plus  y, times  the  natural  log  of  y  S.  This  has  units of  kilojoules  per  kilomole  there. Mole  you  know  a  mole, so  let's  kilo  mole  with  it,  right? So  this  is  what  we're  going  to  drive. I'm  telling  you  this  right  now. And  what  we're  going  to  go  through  is how  you  actually  arrive  at  this  formula. So  what  are  the  idealizations  that  we make  such  that  we  can  get  to  it. And  the  first  one,  like  I  said, that  we're  doing  is  we're starting  from  the  perspective of  basically solving  this  problem  in  the  opposite  way. We're  saying,  okay, how  much  work  do  I  need  to  put  into, you  know, reversibly  separate  these  components? And  that  is  going  to  be  equivalent  to  saying, Okay,  these  are  separated, and  now  I  mix  them  in a  reversible  way,  right? What's  the  maximum  work  out? So  it's  kind  of  like  two  halves  of the  the  same  coin. Oh,  that's  not  good. Alright.  Oh,  now,  I'm  in  the  middle. Alright.  And  so  where does  this  expression  come  from? So  this  expression,  what  you  can already  intuit  is that  we're  going  to  end  up,  right? Because  this  is basically  mixing  of  chemicals, which  you  can  already hypothesize  is  that  we're  going  to work  through  is differences  in  chemical  potential, right,  our  favorite  property  from  last  time. And  since  that's  the  case, you  can  expect  that  we're  gonna be  working  with  Gibbs  function. Right?  So  DG. Remember  G  is  the  Gibbs  free  energy. It's  like  enthalp  hel molt  function  or  internal  energy, where  we  swap  entropy  for  temperature and  volume  for  pressure. So  just  to  remind  you if  I  took  the  differential of  of  this,  right? So  that'd  be  the  partial  derivative  DG  DP for  constant  t  and  mold  numbers DP  plus  DG  dt, four  constant  P,  and  mole  numbers. When  I  write  the  variable  t, and  the  n  here, it  means  that  it's  kept  constant. This  is  dt.  And  then  this  is  plus the  summation  over  i. I'll  explain  in  a  second  what  I  is. But  then  you  have  the  partial  derivative  of g  d  N.  D N.  And  then  this  partial  derivative is  for  a  constant  P.  It's  for  constant  t, and  it's  for  constant  and  J. So  you  basically  keep the  other  mole  numbers constant  when  you  work  through  that,  right? So  that's  the  full  differential there,  which  is, this  is  going  to  be  All this  whole  expression,  right? The  other  properties  are  derived  from  this. So  this  is  essentially  then  V,  right? This  becomes  volume,  right? DP.  This  is  going  to  become the  negative  of  N  P  S,  dt. And  then  this  is  the  chemical  potential. No.  So  then  this  is  the  summation  over  i  of, D,  and  I,  right? All  right.  So  just  to  remind  you  again, this  is  by  definition  volume, by  definition  and  the  negative  eventropy, and  by  definition,  DGDN is  then  the  chemical  potential,  all  right? To  write  it  out  to  be  fully  explicit, right  so  the  chemical  potential  of  species  I. So  here  I'm  talking  about  species  I, so  this  could  be  the  chemical  potential of  the  water. This  could  be  the  chemical  potential of  the  salt,  right? So  this  is  by  definition, the  partial  derivative  of  G  with  respect  to I  constant  P.  T, and  then  J  so  the  other  mole  numbers are  kept  constant,  right? And  I'm  going  to  introduce  a new  form  of  notation. This  is  also  what's  followed  by  the  book. This  is  then  by  definition, the  Gibbs  free  energy  on  a  per  mass  basis. And  I'm  putting  a  Tilda  over the  top  of  it  because  the  Tilda  means that  it  is  the  partial  property. So  you  can  think  about  that here  I'm  having  salt. Here,  I'm  having  you  know,  water. And  so  you  can intuit  that  maybe  these  things  are going  to  become  additive  in  some  way. And  when  I  use the  tilde  indicates  that  this  is  just  for, let's  say,  the  water  or  this  is  just for  the  salt,  right? And  this  is  equal  to  then  entropy tilde  minus  t  entropy  tilde. And  then  this  is  a  little  H,  and  then that's  a  little  S  there. So  this  is  all  then  on  a  per  mole per  mole  basis,  Good.  Yes,  please. What  is  the  f. This  is  chemical  potential. So  Mu  Mu  I  here. This  is  what  I'm  writing  here. So  the  chemical  potential  is  by  definition, how  the  energy  of  the  system varies  when  I  add  a  component  to  it. So  I  take  something  and  I add  a  little  bit  of  mass  to  it. How  does  the  energy  of  the  system  respond? And  so  the  partial  derivative of,  in  this  case, the  Gibbs  free  energy  with  respect  to basically  the  number  of  moles  of  the  mass  of that  component  in  there  is  by  definition. This  is  by  definition,  chemical  potential. We  did  this  before.  We  went  through the  derivation  in  class. You  work  roughGibs  Dum, also  after  that  relating differences  in  chemical  potential to  measurable  properties like  pressure  and  temperature. Other  questions?  Okay.  All  right. Good.  So  what  do  these  tildays  mean? How  can  we  relate  that  back  to things  like  our  volume, our  hopes,  our  ropes? So  let's  do  with  volume  to  start  with. So  V  volume. Meters  cubed  is  equal  to the  summation  over  i  of  N  i, the  number  of  moles  of  the  component  times  V, the  specific  volume  of  that,  right? So,  essentially,  if  I  took all  those  different  partial  contributions  of specific  volume  for  those different  species  and multiply  it  by  the  number of  moles  that  I  have  there, you  would  get  it  to  be  then  in, you  know,  volume  of  meters  cubed. So  this  little  V  here,  right? If  this  has  units  of  moles  or  kilo  moles, this  has  to  be  meters  cube  per kilomole  or  meters  cube  per  mole,  right? And  again,  the  book  works with  Tilde  notations  for this  partial  for  these  partial  contributions. It's  the  same  then  for  nal  P.  So capital  H  is  then  going  to  be  equal to  the  summation  over  i  of  Ni  tilda, and  NSR  P  is  the  same. Capital  S  is  the  summation  over i  of  n  i  times  S  tilde. Uh,  sure.  If  I  move  it, then  I'm  covering  up  this. And  then  also,  it's  block  for  the  others. Oops.  Now,  here's  my  hidden  board.  Great. Alright,  so  we  can  go  now from  these  relations  of  the  V, the  H,  and  the  as,  ultimately  what  we  want, which  was  the  mixing,  right? So  we're  interested  in  the  change in  entrap  of  mixing. So  we  can  start  with  the  Well, I'll  just  write  it  for  Delta  S, but  basically  Delta  S  mixing and  it's  going  to  be  equal  to  the  sum over  i  of  N.  So  there's  a little  n  I  times  SI, tilde  minus  Si  there.  Okay? And  the  way  to  see  this  is  that if  this  is  the  partial  contribution  here, then  this  SI  here  must be  the  original,  right? So  This  is  basically  the value  you  would  determine, you  know,  prior  to  mixing, and  then  this  will  be  the  value after  you  mix,  okay? And  so  these  two  things  are  then multiplied  then  by  the  mole  number. Yes.  Yeah. So  when  I  write  Little  S  for  today, I'm  going  to  be  a  little  bit  loose  with  it, so  we  have  to  pay  attention  to  is  what  I, you  know,  is  to  pay  attention  to  what it's  being  multiplied  by  here. But  usually  in  these  things, and  I  would  say  by  enlarge  for  most  of  today. So  usually  Little  S  would  be  what kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin. For  today,  what  I'm  telling  you  is that's  for  the  purposes  of  this. This  is  going  to  be  like  kilojoules  per kilo  mole  times  Calvin,  right? Represent.  No.  Tilda,  sorry, I'm  sorry.  Go  ahead. Thank.  So  it's  partial. It's  the  partial  contribution. So  I  think  if  you wanted  to  understand  partial, what's  the  pressure  in  this  room  made  up  of? The  pressure  in  this  room  is  made  up  of the  summation  of  the  contributions to  the  pressure  of  nitrogen, oxygen,  water  vapor,  and  all  of  that,  right? So,  so  basically  said  additive  with  you  know, for  those  different  components  to  it. And  what  you  have  to  think  about  then, you  know,  here  in  this  case  is  say, k,  now,  for  this  component, then  what  is  the  overall  contribution  to entropy  from  that  component  from basically  the  component  there. So  that's  a  little  bit  complicated  to  think about  because  there's  a  mixed  system,  right? So  what  I'm  saying  is  you  want  to  determine the  property  of  a  component, but  the  component  initially is  separated  from  everything. But  then  when  you  mix  it,  it's  not,  right? It's  altogether.  But  that  mixture, right  at  the  end  of  it,  you  know, if  I  fell  out  a  process  and  I  get  to there  and  I'm  at  an  equilibrium  state, There  is  one  property,  right? There  is  one  entropy.  There  is one  temperature.  There  is  one  pressure. But  for  the  purposes  of  analysis  here, it  would  be  convenient  if  you  could  assign, let's  say  a  partial  contribution  to that  entropy  for  that  one  component or  a  partial  contribution, you  know,  to  the  entropy from  like  Salt,  something  like  that. And  that's  the  meaning  of  Til  Davis. That's  that  partial  contribution. 55  I  would  love  to  get  through  this, and  I  feel  like  then  that's  going  to  help. But  it's  difficult  for  me  to answer  answer  that  directly  right  now. What's  given  and  what's  not  given. I  mean,  to  do  the  problem  here, so  it's  behind  my  board  there,  but,  you  know, what  we're  given  here  is 2.58%  of  the  ocean  is  salt  in  water. And  we're  given  right  the  mass  basically, the  volumetric  flow  rate  here, which  is  150,000  meters  cube  per  second, and  we're  given  the  temperature. And  I'm  pretty  much sure  that's  all  we  need  to  do  this  problem. But  I  need  to  do  a  lot  of math  to  finally  get  you  to that  formula  that  again, that's  behind  my  board  there that  that'll  do  it  for  us. Okay?  Other  questions? All  right.  Okay,  so  it  could  be  the same  then  also  for  volume, So  Delta  V  mixing, could  be  the  mole  numbers  times the  V.  Well,  I  might  as  well  write  it  out. So  Delta  V  mixing  is  equal  to, the  summation  of  i,  n  i, little  V  i  tilde  minus  V, and  then  Delta  Delta  H mixing  is  then  equal  to, the  summation  of,  N  i  I  tilde  minus  H. That  Does  anyone  have  an  example of  a  system  or  some  experience  where they've  mixed  something  and the  temperature  has  changed. Say  it  again.  Yeah,  an  ice  pack, maybe,  although,  I'm  not  I want  to  be  careful  there. With  it.  Okay,  so  that's one  example  ice  pack. So  I  think  it's  the  other  way,  right? You  guys,  we're  with  this. Okay,  but  you  have  experiences there  where  you  took  two  things  separately, you  brought  them  together,  and  they're  mixed. When  something  releases  heat  there, we  call  that  exothermic. When  it  absorbs  its  endos,  you're  the  endo, you're  the  exo  With  it,  right? And  I  believe,  according  to  the  book, I'm  not  a  mixing  guy  overall, but  my  understanding  is  when  we  talk about  those are  more  sophisticated  mixing  processes. When  we  talk  about  mixing of  ideal  substances, we  don't  produce  a  temperature  change,  right? So  these  things,  essentially, when  you  mix  like  that,  they don't  see  each  other,  right? They  actually  sound  a  little  bit, like  in  sort  of  an  ideal  gas  in  that  sense. So  actually,  most  of this  that  we're  going  to  follow  with  is  going to  start  to  sound  a  little  bit like  ideal  gas  analysis,  right? The  other  one,  too,  that's  a  common one  or  maybe  never  ever  do  it, is  like  acids  and  bases. If  you  mix  those together,  it's  very  axothermic. That's  why  you  also store  those  things  separately. So  those  chemicals,  you  never  keep  them  in the  same  cabinets  in  a  lab,  right? And  if  you  do,  you  should say  something.  Alright. Um  So  then  the  specific  one. So  building  on  this  then,  right  to our  specific  volume  then, bringing  it  back  to  to  Y  S  and  RYB. So  the  specific  volume  over i  is  yi  times  V  tilde,  right? So  the  molar  fraction  of component  I  times the  partial  molar  value  of  specific  volume. If  you  sum  through  that,  you're  going  to end  up  with  V. This  for  H,  right? H  is  the  same,  right? It's  again  a  summation  over  I. Y  H  tilda. And  final  one, let's  say  NR  Pitt  S is  then  equal  to  the  summation  over i  Yi  S  tilda,  right? Can  you  see  that,  Jason?  Okay.  I'm  going to  erase  this.  That's  okay. All  right.  It's  all  recorded. I  think.  Yeah,  it's  recorded. All  right.  So  what  does  that  look  like? If  we  build  on  the  enthalpy  example  there. So  if  I  take  right  that  box, and  I  say,  k,  I  got  my  component of  water  that's  coming  in. Maybe  I  got  my  component  of saltwater  that's  coming  here. And  then  out  of  this,  I  I  don't  know, maybe  a  water  plus  towards  a  saltwater. And  this  coming  in  is  going  to  have  a  Y W.  This  here  is  going  to  have  a  S,  right? And  so  this  And  of  course,  coming  in,  right? This  is  going  to  have  an  enthalpy  S, and  there's  going  to  be  an  enthalpy  of  water. Enthalpy  of  water  enthalpy  of the  saltwater  that's  there. And  so  the  Delta  H  of  mixing,  right? So  the  change  in enthalpy  of  mixing,  let's  say, is  going  to  be  equal  to  R  Y  A,  I'm  sorry, not  YA  RY  W  times  HW  mixture. Minus  H  W,  and then  this  would  be  basically plus  y  of,  let's  say, R  saltwater  times  salt mixture  minus  H  S.  All  right?  Good. And  what  you  could  see  from  this, I  wrote  things  like,  right, so  I  have  the  water  when  it's mixed  minus  the  entropy  of  water, and  then  here  I  have  the  saltwater  and mix  minus  the  saltwater. We  have  a  comment  about  this  term. Oh,  I'm  sorry.  So  in  general, about  this  expression  here  on  the second  one.  Go  ahead,  Sam. Salt  water. That's  a  great  point.  That's  a  great  point. Actually,  to  Sam's  point, no,  no,  that's  a  very  great  point. So  in  this  case,  if we  brought  this  up  in  this  analysis  here, this  would  be  the  pure  pure  salt  case,  yes. And  then  this  would  be  your  salt  mixture. This  is  the  pure  water  case, and  then  this  is  the  water  in  the  mixture. So  at  the  end  here,  these  are the  enthalpies  of  salt  water is  what  we  ultimately  end  up  with. Okay?  Yes,  go  ahead. One  more  time. Yeah.  So  if  we  come  to  here, we  can  look  at  this  expression. So  what  I'm  talking  about here  is  the  contribution  to the  final  enthalpy  mixture of  water  in  the  final  mixture. All  right. So  I  suppose  to be  consistent with  the  notation  that  I  had  here. These  would  then  be  right  with  Tildas and  with  partial  contribution. Yes. Are  those  values  No,  I  don't  think  so. Not  necessarily.  So  right? 'cause  they're  gonna  depend  on their  partial  contribution  here. So.  Okay.  I  need to  pick  up  the  paste  with  this. Okay.  So  if  We  look  at  the  textbook. The  textbook  basically  gives  us  a  formula. If  I  had  to  derive  this  one, this  s  would  take  me  the  whole  way. But  in  short,  it  can  be shown  that  changes,  Dui, small  changes  in  the  chemical  potential  of the  ith  component  are  equal  to  Vi, little  V,  tilde  DP  minus  S, tilde,  td,  dt,  and  then  plus  the  summation over  the  ith  component of  the  partial  derivative of  UI  with  respect  to  dy. D  Y  i,  and  then  this  is  for  constant  P, T,  and  Y  J. I'm  going  to  move  this  to the  center  because  it's  important. All  right.  So  what  follows  next? And  this  is  where  we're going  to  get  that  relation. We're  going  to  be  able  to  basically relate  this  is  like  Gibbs  Dum, right  Gibbs  Dum  or  we  relate  changes  in chemical  potential  to  changes in  the  intensive  properties. If  we  say  that  a  process  is  isothermal, so  T  equals  to  a  constant. And  if  we  say  fixed  composition, right,  fixed  composition,  Right. So  basically  our  Ys,  right? O  Y  values  O  Y  values  don't  vary. What  you're  going  to  have  is  this  Du i  is  equal  to,  right? So  if  it's  constant  temperature,  right? This  is  going  to  drop. And  if  it's  constant  composition, this  is  also  going  to  drop. And  so  Du  write  it  in  red. But  D  u  i  is  then going  to  be  equal  to  V  tilda, D  P.  All  right.  All  right. If  we  start  by  saying, like,  in  general,  for  mixing, that  the  fluids  that  we're dealing  with  are  sort  of  ideal  gas  mixtures. One  could  substitute  right  through the  ideal  gas  equation with  the  VI  here  to  be, you  know,  RT  divided  by  P. And  for  this,  I'm  going  to  era on  this  race  on  this  side  here. So  if  we  say  we're  an  ideal gas,  This  is  garbage. This  one's  also  trash. We're  left  with  red.  I  apologize. I  deal  gas  mixtures. And  we  could  go  in  and substitute  a  formula  for  our  Vi. So  our  V  I  tilda  is  going  to be  equal  to  the  universal  gas constant  R  U  times the  temperature  divided  by P.  And  the  one  thing  I  want  to  note here  is  that  this  P  is the  absolute  pressure,  okay? And  the  reason  why  we  can  do  this, right  is  because  if  you think  about  an  ideal  gas, it  doesn't  feel  right the  other  components  that  are  there. So  it  makes  sense  that the  specific  molar  volume  here, or  the  partial  specific  molar  volume is  simply  the  ideal  gas  constant, the  temperature  of  the  environment, and  the  pressure  of  the  environment. We're  calling  this  formula  here,  right? Du.  So  if  I  take  the  DM  over  here,  right? So  my  DM  is  going  to  be  equal  to  r  t, divided  by  P  DP,  right? You  can  integrate  this.  All  right. So  we  can  go  and  we  can integrate  that  formula  there. We  can  put  the  lower  bound as  the  total  pressure, so  we  go  from  basically  P  to  Pi. And  then  this  would  basically be  for  the  chemical  potential at  t  P  to  the  chemical  potential at  t  Pi  there,  right? Because  this  is  math,  I have  to  use  a  variable  of  integration, my  variable  integration  since I  already  burned  my  tilday. I  was  going  to  put  a  bar  there. And  so  what  this  is  going  to  lead to  is  that  the  chemical  potential of  the  ith  component  at t  Pi  is  equal to  the  chemical  potential  of the  ith  component  at  T  P, essentially  the  chemical  potential of  the  pure  substance, plus  ideal  gas  constant  temperature, The  DP  divided  by  p  is  what? The  natural  log  of,  right? Then  our  Pi  divided  by  P,  okay? And  if  you've  read  your  textbook, you  will  know  that  the  ratio,  right? So  this  is  called  the  partial  pressure. So  think  like  water  vapor  in this  room  is  about  30  millibar 0.03  bar  of  the  pressure in  this  room  is  from  water  vapor. The  total  one  is  1  bar. So  the  partial  pressure divided  by  the  total  pressure  is  by definition  then  equal  to  the  YI. So  the  YI  that  I  was  talking  about,  right? This  is  one  definition,  one  definition  of  it. Yeah.  So  this,  as  I  said, you  would  call  this  as  the  Mu  pure. Okay,  so  this  is  something  you  could  look  up, right  in  a  property  table  known. So  I  think  maybe  to  Jason's  question  there, right,  that's  something  that could  be  looked  up. And  then  this  would  be  right  the Mure  I  deal,  right? So  from  this  analysis,  right, this  is  going  to  be  the  chemical potential  of  the  mix  solution, but  it's  assuming  it's  an  ideal  solution, which  is  that  the  components that  are  in  there  when  they're  mixed, they  don't  see  each  other,  right? Which  again  is  a  little  bit  like  an  ideal, an  ideal  gas  assumption. It's  all  of  this,  right? It's  assuming  ideal  gas. Alright.  Um  You  move  over  race  here. Try  to  bring  home.  Okay. Yeah,  so  if  you  took  now,  right, we  could  take  the  partial  derivative of  each  of  these  components  with respect  to  temperature  for constant  pressure  in  moles. I'll  tell  you  why  Because  ultimately when  we  do  this,  we're  going  to  get  entropy. And  once  we  have  the  entropy, we're  going  to  be  able  to  talk about  the  entropy  of  mixing and  solve  this  problem.  So  if  we  take  D, Dt  from  here  for  constant  P  and  y. This  is  going  to  be  equal  to R  d  u  i  of  t  and  P, dt  for  constant  P, for  constant  P  and  Y. And  then  this  is  plus. And  so  here  if  I  took the  partial  derivative  of  this  term, With  respect  to  temperature, what  this  is  then  going  to  be  is just  the  universal  gas  constant. U,  L  N  of  Y  there  And  you  can  show,  again, this  is  from  the  textbook and  what  you  can  read, but  it  can  be  shown that  the  partial  derivative d  dt  four  constant  P and  constant  composition. So  constant  n  or  constant  y there  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  dS, d,  four  constant  t  P  and  N  j, and  that  this  is  equal  to the  negative  of  the  partial  mole  property  of. And  that's  important,  right? So  this  is  essentially  what  you're  working towards  is  to  have  this. So  if  I  look  now  at  this  formula  here  with my  D  I  dt  with  that, I'm  ultimately  going  to  be  able  to call  that  as  NRP. So  putting  those  two  together, you  can  say  that  S, So  the  entropy  of  a  mixture  of the  ith  component  of  a  mixture  is  equal to  the  entropy  of  the  pure  substance  minus, the  ideal  gas  constant  are  natural  log  of  y. All  right.  And  this  assumes  ideal  solution. Ideal  gas  ideal  solution  there. Oh,  I  can  totally  bring  this  home  now. So  now  we  get  the  entropy  of  mixing. So  the  entropy  of  mixing  then, it  follows  from  this  that  the  Delta  S  mixing is  going  to  then  be  equal  to essentially  this  minus  this,  right? Because  this  is  what  you  end  up  with. This  is  what  you  start  with  there, so  the  S  Delta  S  mixing  is  then  equal  to the  summation  over  i  of n  i  to  the  mole  numbers  of the  component  times  negative, R  times  the  natural  log  of  y. And  I  erased  it  now. But  what  you  can  recall  before  is  that the  G  destroyed,  right? So  erg  destroyed  is  equal to  T  zero  times  entropy  generated,  right? And  this  is  essentially  the  entropy  that we're  generated  from  mixing. So  this  is  going  to  become  equal  to  t  zero. Basically  the  negative,  basically  equals  to the  negative  of  t  zero,  R  u, the  universal  gas  constant  times the  summation  of the  natural  log  of  y.  I. All  right.  So,  this  is  an  important  formula. And  then  this  is  also  an  important  formula. There. Right. And  the  take  home  message  is  that  if  we had  a  process  that  wasn't  doing  work,  right, so  the  reversible  work,  right, would  basically  then  be  equal  to  right? The  reversible  work  then,  in  this  case, for  our  problems  since  we're  doing no  workout  would  essentially be  equal  to  this  de,  right? I  think  maybe  to  ask  answer  Jason  and a  few  of  other  questions. So  if  you  wanted  to  solve  this  problem  here, it's  clear  that  you  need  to  know  why,  right? You  basically  need  to  know  what  your  why  is. You  got  to  also  have  a  handle  on your  mole  numbers  there,  right? So  the  overall  molar  mass,  right? So  molar  mass  has  a  unit of  kilograms  per  kilomole. In  our  case  here,  what  this  is  going  to be  equal  to  the  mixed  solution. So  this  is  the  M  of  the  mixed  solution, is  essentially  the  fraction of  the  mixed  solution  that  has  saltwater, divided  by  the  molar  mass s  the  fraction  of the  mixed  solution  that  has  salt, divided  by  the  molar  mass  of  the  salt, divi  plus  the  fraction  that  has  water, divided  by  the  molar  mass  of  of  water  there. In  our  case,  right,  M  of  the  salt  is  58.44, of  water  it's  18  there. So  this  would  be  a  value  that  is 18.3  kilograms  per  kilo  mole. There  the  YW  Y of  the  water  is  essentially the  fraction  of  the  mass that  has  water  times  capital  M  divided by  divided  by  the  molar  mass  of  our  water. And  then  here  I  have  this  at  0.992. So  essentially  99.2%  of the  mix  solution  has  water  in  it, and  then  the  salt  is  equal  to one  minus  Y  there,  right? So  you  have  your  Y  S,  you  have  your Y  W.  And  so  all  we  do  is  we then  substitute  into our  formula  there.  Right? So  that  minimum  work  then, right  to  the  W  min,  right? So  if  we  used  to  separate  then  would  be equal  to  R  u  t  zero times  y  natural  log  of y  plus  y  S  natural  log  of  y  S. And  this  would  be  the  work you  would  need  to  put  into  separate from  pure  water  and  into into  pure  salt,  Okay. And  that's  very  good. And  so  the  point  is  that  if  you then  wanted  to  do it  for  the  case  where it's  fresh  water  that  into  saltwater, you  would  have  basically no  change  in the  chemical  potential  of  the  ocean,  right? The  ocean  is  huge  and  vast, so  this  term  basically  goes  to
