I  got  210  entropy. Yeah,  so  basically,  we're going  to  look  at  some  aspects of  change  in  entropy  ideal  gases. We're  going  to  look  at  especially in  the  isentropic  process. These  have  two  examples  today  and show  you  how  that's  useful  for,  like, understanding  work  in  or  workout of  steady  flow  devices,  all  right? Then  we'll  also  derive  some deriving  equation. All  right.  So  an  isentropic  process,  right? So  before  We  had  this, we  said  changes  in entropy  were  equal  to an  amount  of  heat  transferred  in, divided  by  temperature,  and  amount  of  heat transferred  out  divided  by  temperature. So  the  first  part  of  calling  something  like isotropic  is  that  there's  no  heat  transfer. That's  step  one.  The  second  thing is  imagine  that the  device  operates  reversibly, no  friction,  right? You  don't  have  anything  that's very  far  from  equilibrium. So  if  you  see  something  like,  Hey, this  is  adiabatic  and  it's  reversible, that  should  trigger  something  in your  head  to  say  isotropic,  right? So  those  are  keywords that  allow  you  to  be  there. But  an  adiabatic  process  is  not necessarily  an  isotropic  process,  okay? And  the  same  for  something  like  reversible. A  device  could  be  operating  reversibly, but  I  could  be  transferring heat  into  it,  okay? And  that  second  one  we'll  classify  and call  is  actually  we'll  give  a  terminology, and  I'll  call  that  one  as,  like, what's  called  internally  reversible. This  whole  thing  operates perfectly  and  reversibly, but  maybe  I'm  adding  heat  or taking  heat  out  of  it,  okay? Um,  All  right, so  that's  the  part  about  isentropic,  right? The  second  thing  is  that  entropy is  a  property,  right? So  just  like  enthropy, if  I  think  about  a  fluid,  so  if  you  look up  here  at  this,  if  I  think  about  the  fluid, the  fluid  can  have  a  property  of an  enthropy  when  it enters  an  internal  energy, a  pressure,  specific  volume, and  also  an  entropy. So  it  can  have  an  entropy,  right? And  when  something  is,  let's say  in  this  steady  flow  device, if  this  is  operating  isentropically, the  entropy  specific  entropy of  the  steam  entering  here is  going  to  be  equal  to the  specific  entropy  of  the  steam  leaving. And  that  is  very,  very  useful,  okay? This  is  going  to  make  it  possible  for us  in  very,  like, easy  ways  to  analyze power  plants  and  devices  later,  okay? And  again,  just  to  remind  you  before, when  something  is  operating  like  this, this  is  the  theoretical  limit of  performance,  right?  So  we're  doing  this. We're  thinking  about  theoretical  limits. Later  on,  we'll  talk about  some  ways  and account  for  the  fact  that  things, you  know,  life  is  imperfect,  okay? So  we'll  account  for  that  later. But  today,  life's  perfect. Cool.  So  an  example. So  here  I'm  showing you  a  very  important  device. This  is  a  turbine,  right? So  this  is  what  you  would  see,  again, you  know,  here, the  work  transferred  out  here. What  would  be  what  is  transferred  to,  like, a  generator  and  electricity  production in  a  thermoelectric  power  plant. You're  given  inlets. So  this  is  superheated  steam. That's  a  high  pressure,  and that's  a  very  high  temperature. So  you  have  superheated  steam  that's entering  here, work  transferred  out,  no  heat  transferred  in, and,  you  know,  the  outlet  pressure. And  this  is  a  reversible  adiabatic  turbine, right? So  the  entropy  of the  fluid  specific  entropy  of the  fluid  exiting  is  equal  here. What  does  that  look  like  on  a  TS  diagram? So  here  you  have  the  saturated  shinom on  a  TS  diagram,  so  temperature  entropy. Here  you  are  at  high  pressure, and  then  dropping  to  the  low,  again, along  this  line  of  constant  entropy. When  you  leave  here,  you're  still a  superheated  vapor. So  let's  get  into  it.  All  right. Okay. I'm  not  going  to  redraw  the  diagram. You  see  here  where  the  control  volume, where  the  control  volume  is defined  at  state  one  entering and  state  two  exiting. All  right.  And  here, the  goal  that  we  want  to  get  out  is  the  work transferred  out  per  unit  mass. So  what  we're  calling is  W  out  here  is  equal  to W  dot  out  divided  by the  mass  flow  rate  of  this  entering,  right? I  have  one  inlet,  I  have one  exit,  right  there. Okay?  So  what  we  assume, is  that  we  can  neglect  All  right,  KE  and  P, similar  elect  kinetic  energy and  potential  energy  changes, so  Delta  KE  and Delta  P.  Let  me make  sure  that  looks  good.  Um. We  cannot  treat  this  as an  ideal  gas  properties  determined  from Pi  K.  We're  not  going  to  apply the  ideal  gas  equation  to  a  steam  turbine. We're  going  to  assume  it's  reversible,  right? So  it's  a  reversible  process, reversible  plus  adiabatic,  okay? Adiabatic,  which basically  implies  that  it's  isotropic. All  right,  that  steady  flow. It's  a  steady  flow  device, steady  flow, right,  which  means  that,  you  know, changes  in  the  mass of  the  control  volume  is  zero, and  changes  in  the  energy  of the  control  volume  is  also  equal  to  zero. And  we'll  switch  over.  This  marker  is  dead. We'll  move  over  into  red  now. I  All  right. We  have  a  single  inlet  and  outlet,  right? Single  inlet  plus  outlet  there. All  right?  Cool. So  our  physical  laws, the  physical  laws  that we'll  write  here,  right? So  the  first  is  the  conservation  of  mass. So  dmCv  dt  right  is  equal  to  m.in. Minus  M  dot  out. Let  me  see  how  that  looks. That  looks  pretty  good. M  dot  out,  because this  is  steady  flow, this  is  going  to  go  to  zero. And  what  this  implies  is that  dot  is  equal  to  m.in, which  is  equal  to  M  dot out  to  do  the  same  thing for  the  conservation  of  energy, dcvdt  is  equal  to  e.in  minus  E  dot  out. Steady  flow  this  goes  to  zero. So  your  e.in  is  equal  to your  E  dot  out  there.  Yeah. All  right.  Underneath  this.  All  right. So  the  ways  we  can  transfer  energy  in  again, write  w.in  plus  our  q.in  plus  our  M  dot. Remember  this  is  m.in, but  that's  equal  to  M  dot,  Enthal  P  one, state  one  is  entering  plus  velocity one  squared  divided  by  two  plus  gz  one, the  potential  energy  is equal  to  your  W  dot  out, plus  your  Q  dot  out. Plus  M  dot  out, which  is  just  M  dot,  enthalpy  two, which  is  at  the  exit  velocity  two squared  divided  by  two,  gz  two. Kinetic  terms  are  gone, adiabatic  heat  terms  are  gone, and  we  don't  have  work  in. This  is  workout.  O  W  dot  out  here  is  equal  to our  M  dot  times  H  one  minus  H  two. You  can  check  if  this  makes  sense. You  would  expect  the  enthalpy of  the  steam  entering the  turbine  to  be  higher  than  that  exiting. There's  basically  more  energy  in the  steam  when  it's  coming  in and  you  want  to  extract  that. H  one  should  be  greater  than  H  two. We  have  the  M  dot.  What  we're  interested  in, though,  is  W  dot  out  divided  by  M  dot. So  if  we  then  take  that  dot, and  we  shift  it  to  the  other  side, right?  That's  what  we  have,  right? So  the  work  transferred  out  on a  per  mass  basis  from  the  turbine  is equal  to  the  difference  from the  enthalpy  at  the  inlet. Basically  the  enthropy  at  the  inlet minus  the  enthropy  at  the  exit  there,  right? So  that's  super,  super  simple,  right? But  we  know  H  one. So  let's  talk  about  some  properties  here. So  H  one  state  one  State  one, we  know  P  one  is  equal  to  our  five  MPA. We  know  that  T  one  is  equal  to our  450  degrees  C.  And  from  this, we  can  get  enthropy  one and  also  entropy  one,  okay? So  the  specific  enthropy and  the  specific  entropy. So  for  State  two,  All we  know  is  the  pressure. Right  now,  P  two  is  equal  to  1.4  MPA? And  S  two  specific  enthalpy  at  state two  is  equal  to the  specific  enthalpy  at  state  one,  okay? Because  this  is  isotropic. And  this  is  not  complete  information. So  pressure  with  specific  entropy means  that  I  also  then know  enthalpy  two,  right? You  can  use  PKolor,  plug  this  in. There  was  a  question  before  about what  unit  if  you want  to  put  this  in  for Picor,  how  could  you  declare  this? So  if  I  said  something  like, let's  say,  Um,  right? Maybe  ST  two  is  equal  to  h  dot  state, all  of  my  substance. So  here  I'd  have  water.  All  right. Right?  I  have  my  P.  So  the  P  here is  then  equal  to  what  is  that? That's  1.4  comma. And  you  can  put  in  quotes  M  PA  and  for  S, if  you  wanted  to  put  that  in  here,  right, you  could  just  put  in  the  value that  you  would  have  for  S  two. So  we  get  S  two. And  then  in  here,  it  would  be  kilojoules. It's  basically  a  little  K.  So  you'd have,  um,  All  right. Kilojoules  per kilogram  space  Kelvin  like  that. All  right.  I'll  update this  later  in  the  readme  file, but  you  can  also  declare  units  for  this  for enthalpy,  like  that,  okay? So  you'd  have  this,  you'd  have  the  H  two. And  then  when  you  substitute  you can  go  in  and  substitute  some  numbers. So  if  we  substitute  it  then  write  this  W  dot out  divided  by  M dot  being  equal  to  H  one  minus  H  two. What  I  have  as  a  value  is  350, then  kilojoules  per  kilogram  as  an  answer. The  thing  to  reflect  on  is,  again, that  this  is  adiabatic  and  reversible, and  that  allows  you  then  to set  the  entropies  equal  and determine  state  two,  namely  enthalpy  two. Cool.  Questions  about  that? And  that's  why  you  care  about  entropy because  it  makes  it  easy,  right? This  makes  it  easy  to  analyze  and  at  least understand  what  will  be maximum  performance  that  can be  had  out  of  your  device. Yes,  please. Define  so  let  me  just  be  clear,  right? So  if  I  define  right, if  I  define  state  one, what  I'm  defining  in  Pi  or is  an  object  called  ST  one,  right? So  if  I  define  ST  one,  right, S  one  is  equal  to  St  one  dots,  right? And  then  if  I  know  that,  then I  just  put  it  in. So  you  could  also  just  write, you  know,  St  one  dots  here. And  then  what  you  need  to  understand  is  that the  default  unit  of  this is  like  what's  in  the  textbook, which  is  kilojoules  per  kilogram  kelvin. So  the  outputs  are  set, but  then  you  can  convert  to whatever  unit  would  you  would  want, and  then  you  would  just declare  what  that  unit is  if  you  want  it  as  an  input,  okay? Or  just  default  and  say, Hey,  you  know,  I  live  dangerously. I'm  just  going  to  put  kilojoules per  kilogram  per  kelvin. I  know  that,  I'm  just  going to  write  it  without  the  unit. But  I  advise  always  write  in the  unit  because  you get  to  reflect  and  think, you  know,  am  I doing  the  right  thing?  All  right. Other  questions? Great.  So  now,  a  derivation. So  everything  that  I  just  showed you  right  there  is  enough  to now  start  analyzing  so I  just  showed  you  the  vapor  cycle. And  with  that  approach that  I  just  showed  you, it's  totally  valid  to analyze  air  cycles  the  same  way, compressors  and  that,  right? So  you  can  use  Pi  killer  and  do  it. What  I'm  going  to  do  now  is  something that  for  ideal  gases allows  you  not  to need  property  tables,  right? And  this  basically  develops  out  of  the  fact that  before  it  was a  pain  in  the  neck  to, like,  look  up  properties. So  if  you  read  the  book  chapter, we're  going  to  talk  about  these  things  called TDS  relation. So  I'm  going  to  see  if  I  can  find  a  black. Nope,  they  took  everything.  That's  awesome. Okay.  That  is,  like,  empty.  That's  amazing. It's  amazing.  Here  we  go. The  goods.  All  right. That's  better.  Okay. Um  Yeah,  so  the  context  of  this  is  think  this is  going  to  be  a  useful  formula that  may  make  my  life even  easier  when  I  analyze, like,  compressors,  jet  engines,  gas  turbines. That's  the  mindset  they  have for  the  following  derivation. Okay,  so  entropy  differential  relations. Okay,  do.  Okay. So  before  I  get  into the  first  step  of  this  is, we  want  to  show  is basically  for  an  ideal  gas, that  for  an  isotropic  process, we  can  relate  things  like  temperature, pressure  and  specific  volume. So  think  like  a  compressor. I  know  the  temperature and  the  pressure  upstream. I  know  the  pressure  downstream. I  would  like  to  know the  temperature  downstream,  okay? There's  going  to  be  a  formula  for  that. And  why  do  I  care  about  temperatures? Because  differences  in  enthalpy for  an  ideal  gas  are  what? You're  going  to  do  amazing on  quiiz  one.  Yes,  please. That's  it.  Functions  of  temperature. So  if  I  get  Delta  Ts  across these  devices  with  a  constant  CP, I  know  changes  in  enthal  peak. Bang  bang,  okay?  So  that's  the  mindset. It's  going  to  be  a  tool  that  allows  you to  rapidly  get  the  temperatures upstream  or  downstream  of  a  device.  Okay. Step  one.  Now,  I  told  you  before,  right, that  dq  divided  by T  was  by  definition,  equal  to  ds. And  that  is  true  for  these  devices. If  they  don't themselves  generate  entropy,  okay? So  remember,  if  I  take a  device  and  I  have  a  lot of  friction  there,  right? I'm  going  to  be generating  entropy  from  that,  right? I'm  going  to  heat  from  that heat's  going  to  be  transferred  in, it's  going  to  be  a  mess,  all  right? So  to  calculate,  then the  change  in  entropy  for  such  a  device, when  I  add  heat  to  it  or  take  heat  out, I'm  going  to  call  this  as  internally reversible,  all  right? So  the  device  can  have  changes  in  entropy, but  those  changes  in entropy  are  only  going  to  be  due  to  me bringing  heat  in  or  heat  out  and not  due  to  friction,  okay? Stay  with  me. Maybe  the  weirdest  part of  the  course,  all  right? I  got  two  subscripts. Um,  So,  yeah, an  internally  reversible  process is  one  without  irreversibility. So  no  friction  within  the  device,  right? So  if  this  is  like  a  compressor  within  here, everything  is  isothermal,  right? So  I  have  no  friction  inside  of  this. It's  reversible,  right? This  is  my  happy  place,  okay?  That's  in  here. Any  temperature  differences  in  all  of  that, all  that  stuff  exists  outside  of  my  boundary. That's  the  meaning  of  internally,  um, uh,  uh,  reversible,  okay? All  right.  So  that's  the  first  thing. Now  we'll  start  with the  first  first  law  here. All  right. So  the  first  law  for  this  then  is  going  to  be the  change  in  internal  energy  is equal  to  the  change  in  heat  transferred  for an  internally  reversible  process minus  the  change  in  the  work  transferred, also  for  an  internally  reversible  process, okay? And  for,  like,  a  simple  system, so  think  of  like  a  piston,  right? So  if  we  think  about  a  piston, you  know,  no  mass  in  or  out, um,  And  this  piston, let's  say  the  substance in  there  is  compressible. Let's  say  it's  like  air, right?  It's  an  ideal  gas. The  only  kind  of  work  that  this  can  do is  PDV  work,  okay? So  if  it's  reversible,  right, it  would  be  PDV,  right? You  can  think  about  other  types  of  work  like electrical  work  transferred in,  but  that's  not  reversible. I  pass  electrons  through  that. I'm  going  to  get  heat. That's  not  reversible.  So  the  only  kind of  work  then  there  I  can  do  for a  simple  compressible  system  is  P  PdV. This  from  the  formula  up  here  then is  nothing  but  TDS we're  going  to  write  d  is  an  equal  to  TdS minus  PdV for  an  internally  reversible  process. Do,  do,  do.  We  can  rearrange  this, and  we  say  ds  is  equal  to  d  plus  P  dv. We  can  divide  both  sides  by  mass, and  then  I  can  write  this  as  dS  is  equal  to d  plus  P  d  little  V.  All  right. There's  two  forms  that  we're  going  to  use. So  this  is  one  that's  going  to  be  useful. We  have  another  one  that  involves  enthalpy. So  for  that,  let's  say  recall. Recall  that  H  is  equal  to  U  plus  pv. If  I  take  the  differential  of  this, I  can  have  d  is  equal to  dh  is  equal  to  d  plus P  dv  plus  V  dp,  some  chain  rule  there. If  I  rearrange  this  as  a  function  of  d, I  can  then  do  a  substitution. So  d  is  equal  to dh  minus  pdv  minus  V  dp.  All  right. Substitute  that  into  there, and  I  can  have  then  T  ds  is  equal  to d  minus  pdv  minus  V  dp  plus  pdv. And  so  it's  going  to  go  away,  right? This  is  going  to  go, and  then  this  is  going  to  go. And  so  then  our  Tds  relation, another  one  will  be  ds is  equal  to  dh  minus  V  dp. The  All  right. And  so  what's  nice  about  this  is  right, changes  in  entropy,  right, which  we  can't  measure,  right? So  ds  is  then  going  to  be  related  to  things that  might  be  knowable or  might  be  able  to  be  looked  up,  right? DH  divided  by  T  minus  V  dp also  divided  by  T.  Okay? So  for  the  ideal  gas,  so  remember, the  type  of  system  we're interested  in  here  compressible  system, a  simple  compressible  system. And  at  this  point,  we're  going to  declare  ideal  gas. So  for  an  ideal  gas,  um,  right? We  know  that  changes  in enthalpy  are  equal  to  Cp  dt. And  the  substitution  that  I  want  to make  is  going  to  be for  specific  volume,  right? So  then  I  know  that  pv  equals  RT, so  that  means  V  is  equal  to  RT  divided  by  P, where  R  is  the  specific  gas  constant,  right? So  dh  into  here,  and  V  into  there. And  so  what  you'll  have  then  is ds  is  equal  to cp  dt  divided  by T.  We  can  integrate  that  now, and  then  minus,  right, Rt  divided  by  P  times  V divided  by  T  dp,  all  right? Temperatures  go  away.  And  again, this  is,  what  did  I  do  wrong? What  did  I  do  wrong?  I  should not  have  a  V  because  I substituted  in  for  V,  right? So  I  substitute  to  VRT  by  P. The  one  over  T  stays  there  with the  dp  and  so  what  you  in  the  end then  is  R  let  me  just  write  it  out  ds  is equal  to  Cp  dt  divided  by  T  minus  R, dp  divided  by  P,  okay? And  then  we  can  integrate,  right? So  we  can  basically  integrate  this. This  is  straightforward. Let's  say  from  state  one  to  state  two. R  is  a  constant, so  I  can  pull  that  out  of  the integral  from  P  one  to  P  two. And  then  here,  we  have  to make  a  decision,  right? So  I  could  write  the  integral  like  this. Specifically  does  depend  on  temperature, not  very  strongly  in  the  regions  that we  care  about  in  this  class,  but  it  does. So  I  can  integrate  this  1-2. And  then  what  I  would  have  to  do  is I'd  have  to  take  an  average  value,  right, or  I'd  have  to  essentially  have  CP as  a  function  of temperature  and  integrate,  right? We're  practical  people,  okay? And  I'm  an  engineer, and  I  like  things  to  be  easy, at  least  in  my  first  attempt. So  I'll  say  this. And  then  what  you'll  do  is  you'll  just  say that  the  CP  is  a  constant. I  like  to  take  the  value of  the  specific  heats  at the  temperature  that  I  start  from. A  lot  of  times  in  this  class, you're  going  to  hear  us  take essentially  this  value  at room  temperature  condition. For  engines,  we  call  that the  cold  air  assumption, cold  air  assumption  there. So  you  just  do  that  because  we  want life  to  be  easy,  right? And  so  with  that  integration,  right, I'm  going  to  have  S  one  or S  two  minus  little  S  one. Is  equal  to  cp,  the  natural  log of  T  two  divided  by  T  one minus  the  specific  gas  constant  R  times  P two  divided  by  P  one,  all  right? And  that's  our  first  relation  there,  okay. Okay,  we  can  also remember  that  for  an  ideal  gas, the  d  is  equal  to  CV  dt. Let  me  see.  Am  I  off  the  board? I  think  I'm  off  the  board. CV  dt. Let  me  at  the  state,  I'll  turn  that  off. Okay.  So  CV  dt. And  instead  of  writing  this  as a  function  of  a  specific  volume, I  can  do  it  for  pressure,  right? P  is  equal  to  rt  divided  by  specific  volume. Okay.  Okay.  So  if  I  have  the  TDS,  right? So  if  we  have  the  Tds  relation that  is  here,  so  that  original  one. So  what  I  can  say  is  the  Tds  T d  little  S  is  equal  to  d  plus  pdv. So  the  d  is  then  Cv  dt  plus  P  dv. So  the  P  here  then  is R  T  divided  by  V  dv,  okay? You  can  divide  both  sides  by  temperature. So  T,  T  and  T. And  if  we  do  that,  this  T  is  gone. All  right.  And  of  course, this  T  is  also  gone.  All  right. And  so  we'll  have  ds  is  equal  to  Cv  dt  by T  plus  R  dv by  V.  Can  integrate  from  state  one  to  two. Here.  Again,  I  could  write  the  integral  here, but  today  I  want  life  to  be  easy. This  is  the  happy  place, stay  one  to  two  here, and  then  R  is  a  constant.  This  is  one  to  two. And  so  then  little  S  two  minus  little  S one  is  equal  to  CV  natural  log of  T  two  by  T one  plus  a  specific  gas  constant, natural  log  of  V  two  divided  by  V  one. That's  our  second  relation. All  right.  All  right. And  so  what  you  do  next, again,  because  we're  interested  in,  right, as  I  said  before, we're  going  to  assume  isentropic. And  with  isentropic, I'm  going  to  be  able  to  rate temperature  to  volume  from  state  one to  state  two,  temperature  to  pressure. And  with  those  two  equations, pressure  to  volume. So  what  we're  going  to  do is  we're  going  to  set  S  two minus  S  one,  two,  Zero,  right? That's  great.  Took  the  words out  of  my  mouth.  I  like  that,  right? So  if  we  do  that  four, so  we  can  start  with  our temperature  and  pressure  one. So  if  we  do  that, right,  we're  going  to  have  CP, natural  log  of  T  two  by  T one  is  equal  to  specific  gas  constant, natural  log  of  P  two  divided  by  P  one,  right? You  can  divide  both  sides  by  CP? I  could  write  here,  R  divided  by CP  gets  rid  of  that. And  because  this  is  a  uh, uh,  write  a  coefficient  here, this  is  essentially  the  same  as  R divided  by  CP,  okay? And  because  now  it's  a natural  log  on  both  sides, natural  log  can  now  go  away,  okay? So  what  you're  left  with  then  is  T  two  by  T one  is  equal  to pressure  two  divided  by  pressure  one, gas  constant  divided  by  specific  heat. And  we  can  do  the  same  thing for  our  other  formula,  right? So  CV,  natural  log  of  T two  divided  by  T  one is  equal  then  to  the  negative  of  R, natural  log  of  V  two  divided  by  V  one. Okay,  we  divide  this  by  CV. So  both  sides  we  can  divide  by CV.  So  this  goes  away. It's  a  natural  log, I  can  put  this  to  the  exponent,  right? So  I  can  go  negative  R  divided  by  CV. All  right.  And  now  I  have  natural  logs. So  now  natural  logs  can  go  away. So  I  have  one  relation,  I  have  two. And  because  T  two  by T  one  is  equal  to  here,  right? I  can  have  them  be  equal,  okay? So  the  take  home  message  is for  the  isotropic  processes,  right? It  can  relate  upstream and  downstream,  you  know, let's  say,  the  ratio the  temperatures  upstream  and downstream  to  ratios  of the  pressures  to  some  constants,  right? So  properties  that  we  assume, let's  say,  at  T  one. The  same  thing  for  temperatures to  specific  volumes. And  because  these  two  are the  same  on  the  left  hand  side, you  can  go  pressures  to specific  volumes  as  well,  right? And  the  name  of the  game  in  this  analysis,  though, is  usually  to  get  to  temperatures  because differences  in  temperatures  in  compressors, gas  turbines  tells  us differences  in  enthalpy,  which  tells  us  what? Work  in,  work  out. That's  what  you  care  about. All  right? Cool.  You  can  do  some  simplification. I'm  going  to  spare  you  it  here. If  you  click  on,  you  know, if  you  click  on  the  link there,  it  can  take  you  through  it. But,  um,  convenient  ways  that  we  can, um,  represent  this  are  the  following. The  first  is  that  instead  of writing  things  like  R  and  CV, we  can  recognize  that  R  is  equal to  Cp  minus  CV,  right? That's  the  first  thing.  So  the  specific  heat at  constant  pressure  minus the  specific  heat  for constant  volume  is  equal  to  the  gas  constant. The  second  thing  is  that  we're  going  to talk  about  a  constant  K, which  is  then  Cp  divided  by  CV? This  is  the  adiabatic  index. This  came  up  before  when  we  were doing  adiabatic  expansion,  right? So  this  is,  um,  the  same  constant. If  you  read  other  things other  than  your  textbook, things  on  the  Internet, sometimes  this  adiabatic  index  is also  written  with  a  variable  Gamma  there, but  the  book  uses  K  or Kappa  for  that,  all  right? So  again,  with some  math  and  some  rearranging, which  you  can  have  then  are  the  following. So  T  two  divided  by  T  one, is  equal  to  P  two  divided  by  P  one to  the  K  minus one  divided  by  a  minus  one  divided  by  Kappa, there  T  two  divided  by  T  one is  equal  to  V  one  divided  by  V  two, and  then  this  is  to  the  Kapa minus  one  minus  one, And  then,  again,  if  you  set  these  things equal  and  you  rearrange, what  you  can  show  is  that  P two  divided  by  P  one  is  equal to  V  one  divided  by  V two  to  the  K  or  Kappa.  All  right. More  generally,  again,  you could  rearrange  this  to  be that  all  on  one  side  would be  temperature  one  pressure  one, all  on  the  other  side  is temperature  two  pressure  two, or  in  the  case  of  something  like  the  PV, like  we  did  for  the  adiabatic  problem, I  could  put  p1v1  to the  K  on  the  left  hand  side, and  it's  equal  to  a  constant. What  this  implies  here  is  that  pressure, volume  to  the  K  is  equal  to  a  constant, as  we  did  before,  but you  could  also  show  from  this. What  we  did  not  show before  are  the  other  two. So  temperature  times  pressure  to the  one  minus  K divided  by  K  is  also  equal  to  a  constant. And  temperature  times  specific  volume  to the  K  minus  one  is  also equal  to  a  constant,  all  right? And  again,  these  hold four  ideal  gases  and  right, ist  isentropic  processes,  okay? And  these  will  be  useful when  we  do  things  like  I  said, the  gas  turbine  analysis, which  is  called  Brayton  cycles when  we  get  into  the  jet  propulsion, especially  the  temperature  and the  pressure  ratio  here. That's  that's  a  pretty  handy  formula. Questions  about  that?  Yes,  please. What  do  you  think? I  mean,  some  molecules  have  more  than  that. Some  things  are  also  solid,  right? Yeah.  Yes,  of  course,  it  depends. CP  here,  right? So  this  CP  is  our  units of  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Kelvin  the  same  for  the  CV. Yeah,  that  definitely  depends  on the  substance,  and  you  can  call  this. So  remember  before  we  did  Pi  kilo. So  if  you  had,  let's  say, a  state  one  defined, if  you  went  dot  CP  or  you  did  St  dot  CV, it  will  spit  out  these  constants. So  you  can  call  this, and  then  if  you  just  take  the  ratio  of  them, you  have  the  Adiabatic  index  from  it,  okay? The  questions?  Good.  Yes, please.  Just  to  clarify. Yeah,  so  the  units  of  this  are  kilojoules per  kilogram  Kelvin,  right? Which  here  would  mean  that  it  is. If  you  wanted  to convert  that  to  the  universal, you  would  know the  molecular  weight  of  your  substance, and  you  could  recover  R,  okay? Maybe  since  we're  on  the subject  of  talking  about  this, you  can  also  see  the  following,  right? You  can  see  the  universal  gas  constant  being written  to  the  specific  heat on  a  molar  basis, minus  specific  heat  at constant  volume  on  a  molar  basis. And  this  holds  then  for all  ideal  gases,  okay? So  RUCp  minus  CV there  for  the  monotonic  gases  is  like  that. I  don't  really,  you  know, I'm  only  mentioning  it  since  you brought  it  up  and  triggered  me  with  it, but  you  can  look  into  it. But  yeah,  this  is  then the  specific  gas  constant. Okay?  Other  questions?  Yes,  please. In  the  play  by  play. So  the  play  by  play  here  is  that what  I'm  saying  with  this  first statement  is  for  a  process, the  only  types  of  changes in  entropy  can  be  for  me transferring  heat  in  or out,  internally  reversible  there. You  write  the  first  law with  this  first  law  written  in  this  format, assuming  that  I  have  this compressible  system  internally  reversible. I  don't  have  any  friction. The  type  of  work  I  can  do is  boundary  work,  PDV, and  the  way  that  entropy can  change  there  is  TDS, keep  being  transferred  in  and  out, and  that's  equal  to  DU. So  first  law  written  now  and a  second  law  of  way,  all  right? Um,  this,  I'm  just  repeating  it. This  I'm  dividing  by  mass. This,  I'm  telling  you a  definition  of  enthalpy. Here  I'm  doing  chain  rule. Here  I'm  substituting that  chain  rule  back  into  this, and  I'm  just  writing one  version  of  what's called  the  TDS  equation. Or  if  you  like  to  write  old  guy  names, you  can  it  the  Gibbs  equation. But  I  like  TDS.  That's  my  old  man's  initials. So  TDS  is  there. Um,  So  you've  got  that. I  rearrange  now  because  what  I'm  interested in  is  changes  just in  the  property  of  entropy. Here,  I  want  to  relate  changes  in  entropy  to changes  in  properties  I  can measure,  things  that  I  care  about. So  I  do  that  here. I  divide  by  temperature,  fine. Now  I  got  a  bunch  of things  that  I  can't  integrate. I  need  to  substitute  in, for  dH  CP  dT, because  that  makes  that  integrable. And  then  with  V,  I  have  an  equation  of  state. I  have  the  ideal  gas  I  substitute  in. And  ultimately,  what  I  get  is  changes  in entropy  related  to  things  I  can  measure. And  then  I  say,  I  want  this  to  be isotropic  because  I  want to  talk  about  the  maximum  possible. And  now  I  can  relate  temperature to  pressure  with  constants  that  I  know. And  that's  convenient.  It  was especially  convenient  when  you  had  tables. When  you  had  to  do  tables  and  look  it  up, this  was  like,  Whoa.  Oh,  my  God. I  only  want  to  work  with  air, you  know,  forget  water. All  right?  So  that's  one  approach  that  you can  get  one  formula  from  that,  right? But  we  also  know  that  changes  in internal  energy  can  be related  to  changes  in  temperature  through  CV, another  constant  that  we  know,  okay? And  it  turns  out  that  if  we  can  write a  second  equation  where  changes  in entropy  are  temperatures  in specific  volumes,  set  that  to  zero. Now  I  can  relate  temperature  to specific  volume  for  a  reversible  process. All  I  got  to  know  is some  constants  that  I  can look  up  or,  uh,  even  easier. And  then  everything  after  that is  me  just  mathing  it,  right? So  everything  after  that  is  some  math. And  then  saying  that,  boy, writing  R  and  CP  and  CV  is  kind  of  annoying. Remember  before  when  we  had that  PV  polytropic  process  to  the  K, I  kind  of  like  K  or  Kappa,  okay? That's  a  choice. You  don't  have  to  make  that  choice, but  someone  made  that  choice. So  we  have  Kappa  that's  there. And  essentially,  we  recover that  adiabatic  equation, PV  to  the  K  is  equal  to  a  constant, and  then  two  other  formulas or  one  other  formula  that  we  have  and another  one  that  emerges  because  we  set those  two  original  equations equal  to  each  other. But  the  name  of  the  game  is  that  I  can  relate measurable  properties  to  each  other, assuming  that  it  is isotropic  and  an  ideal  gas, which  is  relevant  for  engines. So  any  engine  that  runs  on  air, you  know,  propulsion,  all  of  that, these  hold  for  the  ideal  cases. And  we  can  get  into,  okay, what  if  it's  not  isentropic? Yeah,  we'll  get  to  there  next, but  this  is  the  step.  Is  that  clear? Yes,  please.  David,  right? David.  Yes.  Thank  you. Are  we  going  to  them? I  don't  care.  Just  be  consistent,  you  know? If  you  like  it,  do  it. But  just  be  consistent. I  can  translate.  Other  questions? But  just  know  that  in  the  book,  it's  Kapp. In  the  book,  it's  KappA. And  when  you  look  it  up  in  the  book, it's  also  KappA,  right? And  you  won't  be  able to  call  that  with  P  Kalre. What  you  can  call  with  Pi  Kilo is  you  can  call  CP  and  CV. And  so  then  K  or  Kappa  or  Gamma, in  your  case  would  be  defined  then  as the  ratio  of  the  two,  okay? Look,  you  know,  if  you  want  physics, it's  a  great  place,  but  you crossed  that  road,  okay? Fine.  And  this  building,  these  people, I  feel  maybe  are  closer  to  us  as engineers  than  they  are  to  the  physicists. So  this  is  more  of  a  Kappa crowd  than  maybe  a  Gamma. Okay.  Other  questions?  These  are nice  questions.  Okay. And  so,  you  know,  what  does  this  look  like? So  remember  before  we  wrote this  PV  diagram  for  the  Karno  cycle. So  for  the  ideal  gas  Karno  cycle  there, what  I'm  plotting  now  is  that  same  thing, and  I'm  computing  temperature  and entropy  based  on  those  relations. All  right.  And  so  what  you'll see  in  the  end  is  that  this  is  going  to draw  a  rectangle  because that's  exactly  what  Karno  is,  isn't  it? A  Karno  is  a  transfer  heat in  at  constant  temperature, transfer  heat  out  at  constant  temperature, and  work  transfer  processes are  adiabatic  and  reversible,  okay? So  isotropic. So  that's  why  those,  right? So  that  would  be  your  workout, and  that's  your  work  in,  okay? I'll  get  played  again, I  guess,  while  I  erase. Cool.  Don't  answer  that, just  sketch. Cool. Yeah,  and  so  now  I can  show  you  the  application  of  that. And  so  with  this, I'll  show  you  two  approaches. So  I'll  analyze  one  using  Pi  Killor,  right? So  what  I  showed  you  for  the  turbine, and  I'm  going  to  do  another  one  with the  isotropic  relations  that  we  just  did, and  then  you  can  compare  the  difference and  the  answers  at  the  end, and  then  decide,  you  know,  do  I feel  lucky  or  not,  okay? When  you  decide  to  do  that. Okay,  so  what  are  we  talking  about  here? So  we  have  a  compressor, and  it  runs  on  nitrogen. So  we  have  a  compressor, compress  a  compressor. So  what  does  a  compressor  look  like? It  takes  something  from  high  specific  volume and  makes  it  low. So  this  would  be,  let's  say, like  an  inlet  here. And  then  this  would  be,  let's  say, like  an  outlet  here. Let's  call  this  state  one  in  state two  and  give  it  a  control  volume. So  I'm  going  control  volume  all  right  here in  green,  like  that. So  that's  my  CV. And  the  gas  here  is  nitrogen. So  N  two  is  what  we're  compressing. What  we're  told  is  that  it's entering  at  a  pressure of  P  one  is  110  kPa, so  atmospheric  pressure  and a  temperature  of  30  degrees  Celsius, so  a  bit  of  a  warm  day. And  then  it  exits  at  a  pressure  of  P  two, which  is  682  kPa. Okay?  And  you're  told  that this  process  is  reversible,  okay? So  you're  told  this  is, uh  reversible  and  that this  compressor  operates  adiabatically. So  this  is  an  adiabatic  adiabatic  compressor, which  basically  means  for  us  that  this is  an  isotropic,  right. So  it  means  basically  from  S  one, Specific  entropy at  state  one  is  going  to  be  equal  to specific  entropy  at  state  state  two,  okay? All  right,  we're  going  to  neglect,  right? So  we  neglect,  changes  in  E, neglect  changes  in  potential  energy. Reversible  adiabatic, it's  a  steady  flow  device. So  the  steady  flow  device,  right, the  change  in  the  mass  of the  control  volume  is  zero, and  the  change  in  the  energy  of our  control  volume  is  also  equal  to  zero. All  right.  Um  All  right, so  then  your  DE,  right? So  D  MCV  dt,  right, m.in  minus  M  dot  out, right?  This  goes  to  zero. So  what  it  implies  is  right M  dot  is  equal  to  m.in, is  equal  to  M  dot  out. For  our  energy  equation, DECv  dt  is  e.in minus  E  dot  out because  it's  steady  flow,  right? That  goes  to  zero.  So  your e.in  is  equal  to  your  e  dot  out,  right? Okay,  for  this  to  be,  right? So  this  is  a  compressor. So  what  it  means  is  that  we're  going to  have  work,  right? That's  transferred  in,  right? So  I'm  going  to  have  some  w.in  that's  there. There's  my  dot  that's  entering. It's  adiabatic. So  it  means  my  q.in  is  equal  to my  Q  dot  out  is  equal  to  zero. Our  velocities  are essentially  zero  in  the  sense that  they  don't  contribute very  much  to  the  rate  of  energy  in  and  out. And  so  we  don't  have  any  workout,  right? So  we  have  w.in  plus.h1, m.h1  is  equal  to  m.h2. All  right,  so  I neglect  all  the  other  stuff,  right? And  so  then  when  I  rearrange, I  have  w  dot  N  is  equal  to M  dot  times  H  two  minus  H  one. That  makes  sense  because  I'd expect  S  two  to be  at  a  higher  temperature,  right? I'm  compressing  that  I' putting  energy  through  work, so  I'd  expect  that  to  be  at a  higher  enthalpy  than  state  one. And  that  formula  H two  minus  H  one  reflects  that  there. Okay.  Mm.  So  I  can  move  that. Blah,  blah,  blah. Okay,  so  for  state,  so let's  do  P  Killor  style. So  for  state  one,  State  one, we  know  P  one,  we  know  T  one. And  so  what  this  means  is  that  we know  S  one  and  we  know  H  one. So  I  can  substitute that  H  one  that  I  had  into  there, and  I  can  use  information  about  S  one. For  state  two,  all  we  know  is  P  two. And  because  from the  assumption  of  isentropic, S  two  is  equal  to  S  one. And  so  from  this,  we  can  get  to  H  two,  okay? The  other  thing  I'll  note  with  this, because  we're  going  to use  it  for  the  ideal  gas, is  that  with  this  information,  you could  also  get,  like,  a  CP, right,  a  specific  heat  at  constant  pressure. You  could  also  get  a  CV,  right, a  specific  heat  at constant  at  constant  volume,  right? And  so  with  this,  right, that's  enough  information  to,  right, determine  the  workout  per  unit  mass. So  if  I  go  with  W  dot  N  divided  by  M  dot, right,  that's  H  two  minus  H  one, which  you  would  know  from  Pi  color. And  in  this  case,  what  I'm  going  to  get  is 215  kilojoules  per  kilogram with  using  Pi  kilo for  determining  properties. Okay,  but  I  told you  before  we  could  treat, you  know,  if  we  assume  now. So  if  we  assume  that  nitrogen  is an  ideal  gas  and  that  this is  an  isotropic  process. And  I  can  relate  T  two  is  equal to  T  one  for  an  isotropic  process  times  P two  divided  by  P  one  to  the  K minus  one  divided  by  K  there. And  again,  just  recall  that  this  is equal  to  cp  divided  by  CB. You  need  to  get  this  from  PCLor. This  is  also  like  at  the  very  start  of the  tables  in  the  textbook. All  right. Also,  for  an  ideal  gas, you  can  remember  that  changes  in enthalp  for  an  ideal  gas are  equal  to  Cp  times changes  in  temperature,  right? So  for  us,  H  two  minus  H  one  is  Cp two  minus  T  one  there,  okay? And  if  you  substitute  numbers in  for  that,  right? So  then  this  H  two minus  the  H  one  for  the  ideal  gas, what  I  find  is 216.7  kilojoules  per  kilogram,  okay? So  what  are  we  talking?  Half  a  percent. So  you  have  half  a  percent  difference  in the  work  per  unit mass  output  of  the  compressor when  you  assume  ideal  gas with  specific  heats  at the  inlet  temperature  versus the  case  when  you go  in  and  you  compute  very accurately  the  process,  okay? So  the  take  home  message out  of  that  is  that  it's a  pretty  good  approximation to  do,  right,  these  approaches. You  know,  if  you  do  have the  isentropic  process  using  this, relating  differences  in  enthalpy to  a  specific  heat that  you  select,  let's  say, a  T  one,  the  inlet  temperature  times  that Delta  T  gets  you  a  pretty  darn  close  value, okay.  Better  than  2%. All  right?  I'll  move  this  over. Questions  about  that?  Yes,  please.  216.7. Yes,  please. Equation  for  the  turbine, it's  on  the  equation  sheet. So  would  you  have  to  show  the  process of  getting  up  to  there  on  the  exam? You  just  have  to  state  assumptions. I  write  things  in  great  detail  so that  you  can  get  into  the mental  habit  of  going  through. But  as  long  as  you  say,  like,  hey, steady  flow,  e,  dot,  e,  dot  dot, neglect  heat,  right,  neglect  workout, and  I  come  up  with  this,  that's perfectly  acceptable  to  me. The  main  thing  is  that  if I  have  to  partially  grade  you and  you  don't  show  me logic  and  work,  it's  so  hard. And  then  I  get  in  a  bad  mood  and  I  get grumpy  and  my  wife's  mad  at  me. So  just  show  some  work. Other  questions?  Okay.  So  we are  30  seconds  early. With  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. If  you  have  questions,  I'm  up  here.
