I the set  up  and So  B  courses  isn't  working. It's  the  end  times. Maybe  we  shouldn't  be  here. So  the  slides  I'll  present, I  made  some  tweaks, but  I  will  update  them  once I'm  able  to  upload  my  slides. Okay. Great.  We'll  continue with  gas  power  cycles. The  the  final  unit  of  this  today. After  today, you're  going  to  be  able  to  analyze propulsion  power  and  efficiency of  a  jet  propulsion  cycle. So  a  jet  engine, we're  going  to  talk  about  this, and  then  we'll  analyze  the  efficiency  of the  most  efficient  engine  that  can  be  done. And  then  with  this,  we  close  and  we move  into  vapor  power. Okay?  All  right. So  what  is  jet  propulsion? So  again,  On  the  left here  was  kind  of  our  pinwheel  example,  right? We  blow  air  on  a  propeller. We  get  it  to  move,  we  get shaft  work,  vice  versa,  right? I  can  put  in  shaft  work, rotate  this  thing  and  move  air  and  go. And  essentially,  if  you're  going  to  say this  simply  with  the  propeller, you  want  to  accelerate  slightly accelerate  a  very  large  mass  of  fluid,  right? That's  essentially  what  a  propeller  is  doing. Um,  if  you  want  to  go  much  faster, so  if  you  want  to  go faster  than  the  speed  of  sound, okay,  this  has  limits. Once  you  get  to  the  speed  of  sound, it  doesn't  accelerate  anymore. You  need  new  mechanisms,  okay? And  the  strategy  here  is essentially  you  greatly accelerate  a  very  small  packet  of  fuel, right  or  air,  a  very  small  amount  of air,  um,  there,  okay? So  what is  the  ideal  jet  propulsion  cycle  look  like? So  air  enters  in here  at  atmospheric  pressure, at  atmospheric  temperature,  all  right? And  it's  moving  with  some  velocity. And  the  way  that  we're  going to  analyze  this  is that  we're  going  to  say that  in  this  reference  frame, it  is  not  moving,  okay? So  obviously,  you  are  moving, but  for  the  purposes  of  this  analysis, we  treat  the  engine  as  static, And  the  speed  that  the  jet  moves  with. So  essentially  the  speed  of the  aircraft  is  then equal  to  the  velocity  at  the  inlet,  okay? So  we  have  you  know,  velocity  coming  in  at some  relatively  fast  speed at  T  one  and  P  one, which  is  atmospheric  pressure and  atmospheric  temperature. So  that  goes  into  a  diffuser,  right? The  diffuser  slows  this  down.  Go  ahead. How  does  it  work  setting  I  mean, how  does  it  work  when  it's  standing  still? You're  not  doing  your  job  then,  okay? So  I  guess  what you're  alluding  to  is  the  start  upphase, basically,  the  transients  there. That's  not  what  I'm  doing. Okay,  so  this  is  a  steady  process,  all  right? Do  you  want  to  get  unsteady? It's  another  class. Okay?  So,  essentially, you  have  that  coming  in  into  a  diffuser, and  a  diffuser  is then  going  to  decelerate,  okay? So  essentially,  we're  going  to  take  a  lot of  kinetic  energy  here  and  some  enthalpy, and  we're  going  to  slow  it  down, which  essentially  means  you're going  to  gain  enthalpy  at  state  two. Things  are  going  to  heat  up  a  bit,  okay? And  we're  going  to  treat  this  as an  isentropic  process. State  one  to  two,  we're  going  to  call this  diffuser  as  an  isentropic  nozzle. What  type  of  flow  was  isentropic  flow? So  the  B  ends  in  irnoulli. Okay,  so,  right,  so basically  have  an  isentropic  flow  from  here. So  we  have  this,  you  know, enthalpy  and  kinetic  energy, which  basically  becomes all  enthalpy  here,  okay? Then  you  have  a  compressor. This  is  going  to operate  adiabatically  and  reversibly, which  means  isotropically,  okay? So  you  have  an  isotropic  compression. It's  going  to  get  even  warmer  through  this. So  now  you're  at  a  high  pressure. And  a  moderate  temperature. Then  you  have  a  combustion  chamber,  okay? Then  the  combustion  chamber. All  right,  we're  going  to  have  a a  constant  pressure  process of  the  heat  addition. So  here  you're  going  to get  to  a  higher  temperature. Then  you're  going  to  run a  turbine,  all  right? 4-5,  that's  going  to  operate  isentropically. And  what's  interesting  about  this  and what  sets  this  apart  from what  we  did  in  Brayton  is  that  all  of the  work  that  you  have  out  of  the  turbine, you  put  back  into  the  compressor. It's  like  you  have  stocks, and  you  make  money  on  that, and  you  just  put  all  the  money  back  into the  stocks  and  you  reinvest. It's  the  same  thing.  You  don't  have  any, You  don't  have  any  net  shaft  work leaving  this  device.  You  got  to  cue. You  got  cue  in,  and  you're  going  to  have some  what  we're  going  to call  propulsion  power  out. But  basically  all  the  work  out  of the  turbine  is  going  to  go  back into  the  compressor  and  compress  the  fluid. Good.  Five  to  six  then,  this  is  a  nozzle. Entering  the  nozzle, you're  going  to  have  a  lot  of enthalpy  and  not  very  much  kinetic  energy. What  you're  going  to  then  do  there  is  to  have an  isentropic  flow  where then  you  have  some  enthalpy  and  a  lot of  kinetic  energy  at  the  exit. That's  the  whole  point because  at  the  end  of  this, you're  going  to  want  a  um  a  force or  a  propulsive  power  to  drive  this,  okay? So  you  really  want  to  speed  things  up  here. Okay.  Cool.  So  let's  go through  now  that  I've  set  you  up  on  that, let's  go  through  the  analysis  here. I'll  give  you  some  numbers. So  again,  similarly, I'll  give  you  some  numbers  and  also derive  into  the  analysis  of  how we  arrive  at  efficiency. So  you  say  you  have  a  turbojet, turbo  jet  aircraft  flying  with  a  velocity the  aircraft  equal  to  260  meters/second. Let  me  just  check  my  writing.  It  looks  good. At  an  altitude  where the  pressure  so  we'll  call  it  P  zero  for  now. But  then  we'll  set  it  to  P  one. We  have  34.5  pa. All  right.  And  that  makes  sense,  right? So  why  do  you  fly  high?  You  fly high  because  you  have less  drag  up  there,  right? If  you're  commercial  and  you  go  far, and  so  the  pressure  is  obviously  going to  be  lower  there,  and  it's  cold,  right? -40  degrees  Celsius,  all  right? We're  told  that  we  have  a  compression  ratio. So,  um, pressure  RP for  our  compressor  is  equal  to  ten. So  essentially,  the  pressure  at  state  three is  equal  to  ten  times  that  of  state  two. P  three  is  equal  to  ten  times  P  two. And  the  temperature  of the  gases  at  the  turbine inlet  is  a  big  number. So  we're  then  told  that  T  at  T  four. So  basically  T  four, we're  told  is  equal  to 1039  degrees  Celsius,  right? And  the  final  bit  of  information we're  given  is  an  MDOT. We're  told  that  the  mass  flow  rate of  air  entering  the  compressor is  45  kilograms/second,  right? What  are  we  told  to  assume? So  we're  told  to  assume The  cold  air  standard  assumption. Right?  Which  to  remind  you, is  that  if  we  just  talk  about the  air  standard  assumption, the  air  standard  assumption  says  first  that we  treat  all  combustion processes  as  heat  addition. So  three  to  four  is  going  to be  a  heat  addition  process. There  is  no  introduction of  mass  from  the  fuel  into  that. We  have  an  m.in  and  MDOT  out, which  is  steady  and  only  air. It's  justified  because  most  of air  is  not  reactive,  it's  nitrogen,  right? So  most  of  what  goes  in  and most  comes  out  as  nitrogen, which  doesn't  react  or  mostly  doesn't  react. And  because  of  that, the  fluid's  going  to  behave  like  air,  right? So  we're  going  to  basically  treat the  thermodynamic  properties  of the  fluid  throughout  this  whole  process as  an  ideal  gas, including  into  the  combustion  chamber. For  the  cold  part  of  it, the  cold  just  means  that  we're  lazy. It  means  that  we  just  take  the  specific  heats at  that  we  keep  the  specific  heats  constant, and  we  set  their  values  to  be that  at  room  temperature  and  pressure. Or  in  this  case,  I'm  going  to set  it  at  the  state  one, essentially  at  state  one when  it  enters  there. So  that's  the  meaning  of  cold,  alright? And  we  do  this  because  it's  convenient, and  I'll  show  you  that the  error  at  the  end  of  this, the  efficiency  the  error  in the  final  efficiency  is  less  than  10%. So  it's  not a  bad  assumption  to  get  started  with. Okay,  um,  Yes. Again,  we're  going  to treat  this  as  stationary, like  I  said  before,  stationary, meaning  that  the  jet,  you  know, it's  like  I  can  either  be  flying and  I  could  have,  you  know, air  entering,  you  know,  relatively, or  I  could  just  be  stationary and  have  all  that  velocity entering  in  that  way. Um,  For  the  diffuser, I'll  get  to  these  assumptions, where  we're  going  to make  some  assumptions  about the  diffuser  and  the  nozzle. In  the  case  of  the  diffuser, we're  going  to  have  a  lot of  kinetic  energy  entering, and  we're  going  to  neglect kinetic  energy  at  the  exit. For  the  nozzle,  it's  vice  versa,  right? So  the  whole  point  is  that  you want  to  accelerate  the  fluid, so  the  velocity  coming  in doesn't  have  a  lot  of  kinetic  energy. B  exits,  it  does. We  can  treat  this  as  an  ideal  gas, or  we  can  use  PClor  to  determine  properties. Again,  in  my  notebook, you  can  go  through  and  see  that. So  yeah, the  compressors  and  turbines  are  reversible. They're  diabatic. That  means  that  they're  isentropic. This  is  a  steady  flow  process. And  the  heat  exchange  here, the  heat  exchanger  we're  going  to treat  isobaric  like  we do  for  the  other  ones,  right? Okay,  so  this  helps  us  to  get  started. So  process  one  to  two. One,  to  do. If  I  look  at  my  diffuser  here, which  is  it's  a  little  bit  different. I'll  draw  it  like  this  to  give  the  meeting. We  have  you're  entering  at state  one  at  state  two, here's  your  control  volume. We  have  an  m.in  and  an  M  dot  out, which  means  we  have  an  M  dot. Steady  flow,  m.in  is  M  dot  out, and  we  don't  have any  change  in  energy  in  the  control  volume, our  e.in  is  equal  to  R, R  dot  out  here,  right? Steady  flow.  So,  um, two.  Exactly. So  the  ways  that  we  don't  have  work  transfer, we  don't  have  heat  transfer  here. So  what  we  can  have  is  we  can  have an  M  dot  times  H  one, which  is  entering  plus a  velocity  one  squared  divided  by two  is  then  equal  to an  M  dot  times  times  H  two,  right? So  really  from  this, what  you  have  is  that  H  two  is  equal to  H  one  plus velocity  one  squared  divided  by  two. Why  don't  I  have?  I  mean,  of  course, I  could  write  and I  could  write  here  that  I  have W  two  squared  divided  by  two  like  that. But  the  reason  why  I  don't is  because  I'm  decelerating  the  fluid,  right? The  whole  point  of  a  diffuser is  that  you're  decelerating  the  fluid, and  so  W  one  is  much, much  greater  than,  right  than  W  two. And  so  what  it  means  is that  this  goes  away,  all  right? I  would  say  it's  intuitive,  but,  yeah, that's  what  you  when  you  do this  analysis,  that's  what  you  would  do. There  may  be  some  cases  where I  might  give  you  a  diffuser  and I  give  you  an  inlet  and  I  give you  an  outlet  velocity. That's  fine.  If  you  make  this  assumption, I  probably  can  accept  it. But  you  could  also  just,  you  know, compare  them.  You  can  calculate  the  value. You  could  say  that  you  neglected, or  probably  what's  easiest  is that  you  just  do  the  substitution  and you  determine  the  enthalpy at  state  two,  right? Okay,  um,  Good. I  also  said,  right?  I  said  that  this was  an  isentropic  process. So,  of  course,  we  could  do an  entropy  analysis  also on  this  control  volume. And  what  you  would  see  from that  is  that  there's no  change  in  the  steady  flow. There's  no  change  in  the  entropy in  this  control  volume. It's  isentropic. It  means  that  there's  no  entropy  generated. And  so  what  that  means  is  that  S  two is  little  S  two  is equal  to  little  S  one,  okay? And  that  can  be  useful. Well,  that  would  be  useful  if  you  use Pi  color  because  now  you  would  know  H  two, and  you  know  an  S  two,  you'd  have  that. You  could  also  use  TDS  relations,  right? I  could  use  TDS  relations  and  also  then  work out  other  properties  like  temperature and  pressure.  Okay?  Good. Any  questions  still  now?  Yes,  please, Presley.  Say  it  one  more  time. Comility  Cosibility. So  you  are  by definition  compressing  this  fluid. Why?  Well,  I  mean, what  do  you  see  about  State three  relative  to  State  two? You're  compressing.  If  I  take a  fluid  and  I  compress,  you  are  compressible. Okay.  Other  questions?  All  right.  Great. Now  we've  done  our  entropy  and our  energy  analysis  of one  to  two,  so  we  can  move  on. All  right,  two  to  three,  two  to  three. So  from  states  two  to  three, here  I  have  a  compressor. This  is  what  my  compressor  would  look  like. I  have  here  my  shaft  that  I'm  rotating. I  have  some  w.in  that I'm  transferring  there.  All  right. This  is  State  two  here.  All  right. And  this  is,  um, State  three,  which  is  exiting. Here's  my  control  volume,  just  like  that. Again,  steady  flow  device, so  there's  no  change  in energy  in  the  control  volume, no  change  in  mass,  no  change  in  entropy. All  right.  And  some piece  of  information  that  we  know, we  know  that  P  three  is  equal  to ten  times  P  two  because  we're  told,  right? Um,  Good. So  that's  one  part  of  it. If  we  do,  again,  our  e.in, because  it's  a  steady  flow, it's  equal  to  our  E  dot  out, it's  adiabatic  here, so  there's  no  heat  in  or  out. There  is  work  that's  in, and  there's  mass  that  enters with  an  enthalp  at  state  two. We  neglect  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. So  then  what  this  is  equal to  is  then  an  M  dot, and  there's  no  workout,  there's  no  heat  out. And  so  this  is  then  going  to  be  like  this. And  so  then  your  w.in  here. Is  going  to  be  DOT  times  H three  minus  minus  H  two. If  we  do  our  entropy  analysis,  right? There's  no  change  in  entropy  in  here. There  is  no  entropy  generation. And  so  what  you'll  have  then  here  is that  S  three  is  equal to  S.  All  right. Good.  So  that  takes  care  of  us then  for  two  to  three. All  right,  three  to  four  is a  combustion  chamber three  to  four  combustion  chamber.  All  right. Mm.  All  right.  And  if  we  draw  this, so  the  way  that  this  would  look  like idealized  is  that  we have  some  fluid  entering  in  at  state  three, exiting  at  state  four,  draw  control  volume. We  assume  the  standard  error  assumption, which  means  you  replace  combustion  processes here  by  heat  addition. So  we  have  some  do  some  q.in. Again,  no  change,  m.in  is  dot  out  is  dot, e.in  is  equal  to  our  E  dot  out. We  have  aq.in.  We  don't have  work  in.  We  have  an  M  dot. We  have  a  fluid  with an  enthalpy,  specific  enthalpy, H  three  is  equal  to  no  workout, no  heat  out,  m.h4. And  again,  for  the  heat  exchanger, we're  going  to  neglect  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. So  your  q.in  is.h4  minus  H  three.  All  right. Okay.  All  right.  Four  to  five, four  to  five  is  our  turbine. So  I've  seen  lots  of  examples  of this  here,  W  dot  out. Here's  our  control  volume. I've  got  some  fluid  entering  here. I've  got  some  fluid  leaving  here. This  is  entering  at  state  four. It's  exiting  at  state  five. M.in  is  M  dot  dot  dot. E.in  is  equal  to E  is  equal  to  E  dot  out.  It's  adiabatic. So  the  only  way  energy is  entering  is  through  the  fluid. So.h4  neglect changes  the  kinetic  and  potential  energy. This  is  not  equal  to  W  dot  out. We  don't  have  any  Q  out. We  also  have  a  fluid  leaving. So  we  have  an  M  dot  then  times  H  five. And  so  our  W  dot  out  here  is  equal to  M  dot  times  H  four  minus  H  five. All  right.  Questions?  All  clear.  Yes,  please. We  are  looking  here,  let  me  zoom  out. I  said  at  the  beginning, but,  I  should  write  it. We're  looking  for  A. You're  looking  for  the  temperature  T  five, the  temperature  at  the  exit  of the  turbine  and  P  five. B,  what  we're  looking  for  is the  velocity  of  the  gases  at  the  nozzle  exit. So  that's  the  velocity  at  state  six. And  then  C,  we  want  to  know  what is  the  propulsion  efficiency. Okay?  Now,  through  these  different  steps, this  is  straightforward. This  is  analysis  that  you've  seen. Part  B  is  also  straightforward. This  is  going  to  be analysis  that  you've  seen. We're  just  stringing  it  all  together. Part  C  is  then  new. So  defining  then  the  propulsion  efficiency. Other  questions?  Yes,  please. We're  driving  a  turbine  here. The  thing  is,  what  do  you  want  to  have the  higher  enthalpy  at the  entrance  or  the  exit? If  I'm  taking  work  out  of a  control  volume  there, which  enthalpy  should  be  higher? The  inlet  or  the  outlet. The  inlet.  This  has to  be  greater  because  that's  what  drives  it. The  difference  in  the  enthalpy is  what's  going  to  give  you  the  work. Age  four  minus  a  five  times  DOT is  the  work  transferred  out. Yes,  please.  For  conclusions. One  more  time.  As  one. So  give  me  an  example  of  another  one. Okay. So  you  could  think  about instead  of  doing  steady  combustion, you  could  do  detonation,  right? So  detonation  then  is that  what  assumption  would you  have  in  detonation? What  cycle  did  we  analyze before  that  operated  with  detonation? No,  I  want  a  name,  a  German  name. So  what  were  the  cycles  that we  analyzed  in  combustion  so far  for  gas  power  cycles? Carne  is  a  generalized  one, but  I'll  give  you  a  point.  Next. Others.  Yes,  please,  Cody. Auto  is  essentially  the  combustion  process is  so  rapid,  we  treat  it  as  what? Volume  Constant  volume,  isochoric. Diesel  slower,  Isobaric. Here,  this  heat  addition  process  is  what? 3-4.  What  did  we  assume  3-4  here? It's  a  heat  exchanger, a  steady  flow  heat  exchanger. What  do  we  assume  for  heat  exchangers? Isobaric.  Thank  you,  Maya. Okay?  So  if  you  wanted  to go  in  and  do  an  interesting  one, you  could  do  detonation, treat  it  not  as  isobaric  as  isochoric, and  then  you  could piece  that  into  this and  then  you  could  solve  that. Sounds  like  a  great  quiz  problem. Okay,  you  inspired  me. Other  questions?  Yes,  please. So  why  don't  we? Why  don't  you  have  one  nozzle? You  could  do  this,  okay? That's  as  simple  as  you  can  get  it,  okay? If  you  want  the  postmodernist  interpretation of  the  jet  power  cycle, you  make  a  ramjet,  which  this  is  it. There's  an  inlet,  there's an  outlet,  and  that's  it. The  trouble  is  that this  is  very  difficult  to  start. This  is  not  like  I turn  the  key  and  I  go,  all  right? There's  a  lot.  You've  already  got  to  be flying  very  quickly  before you  can  do  something  like  that. It  is  a  great  question.  Go  to  SpaceX. Other  questions? You  can  see  it  later.  I'll  move  it. I'll  move  it.  Sit  closer,  sit  on  that  side. All  right.  So  that  was  four  to  five. Does  that  help,  Alex? Yes.  Okay.  Okay.  Um,  where  was  I?  T. Okay,  so  we  did  Yeah, so  the  point  is  that  4-5, we  can  also  do  an  entropy  analysis  of  this. It's  adiabatic,  so  there, and  it's  a  steady  flow  device, so  we  don't  have  any  change  in entropy  in  the  control  volume. It's  isentropic,  so  I don't  have  any  entropy  generated, and  it  means  that  my  specific  entropy at  state  five  is equal  to  my  specific  entropy at  state  four,  okay? So  five  is  four. Okay.  Um  All  right. Before  I  get  into the  step  and  the  analysis  with  the  nozzle, I'd  like  to  combine  the  compressor. Here  is  my  compressor  here connected  to  my  turbine. I  have  an  inlet,  I  have  an  outlet, an  inlet  and  an  outlet  like  this. The  entrance  to  the  compressor  is  state  two, three,  and  then  for  skipping, what  do  I  have  to  skip. We  can  basically  draw. We  can  draw  a  combustion  chamber  like  that. I  ue  ue.in.  That's  it. Three  to  four,  like  that. Then  the  exit  then  is  basically  state  five. If  I  draw  a  Right. And  if  you  were  to  essentially look  at,  I  don't  know, a  control  volume  that  looks like  this,  let's  say,  right? So,  in  my  energy  analysis, what  I  would  have  for this  control  volume  is  I  have  no. So  what  goes  in,  I  have  aq.in. I  have  no  work  in. I  have  an  M  dot, and  I  have  an  H  two, right,  which  is  entering. And  then  what's  exiting  here. So  I  have  no  work  that's  out,  right? I  have  basically  an  m.h5, which  is,  right,  which  is  out  there,  right? And  so  Why  is  that  interesting? Just  give  me  a  second.  All  right? That's  interesting  because  then  essentially, I  can  write  H  five  is equal  to  Q  dot  N  divided by  m  dot  plus  H  two,  okay? So  basically,  I'll  determine the  enthalpy  in  that  way,  okay? What  am  I  saying  with  that? What  I'm  basically  saying is  that  the  work  out  of the  turbine  is  equal to  the  work  into  the  compressor. All  right.  Is  that  clear? All  right.  And  then  obviously  the q.in  is  then  just  going  to  be  an  M  dot. So  we  can  write  this  as  an  M  dot. Here  I'll  write  it  out  explicitly. So  an  M  dot,  the  Q  in. Did  I  write  it  over  there?  I  did. H  four  minus  H  three, H  four  minus  H  three  divided  by M  dot  and  plus  H  two,  and  that's  your  H  five. And  since  this  is  an  M  dot here,  this  is  gone, and  that's  gone.  Cool.  Good. All  right,  bringing  it  home. Five  to  six,  process  then  five  to  six. I  think  I've  killed  this  marker. That's  better.  Okay.  All  right, so  process  then  five  to  six. Again,  it's  a  steady  flow  device. We  have  no  work  in  or  workout. It's  adiabatic,  no  heat  in  or  heat  out. And  we're  going  to  neglect the  kinetic  energy  at  the  inlet. So  then  what  it  means  is  I  have an  M  dot  times  H  five, which  is  equal  to an  M  dot  times H  six  plus  velocity six  squared  divided  by  two. All  right.  And  so  if  I  rearrange  this, and  I'm  going  to  have  is a  velocity  six  at  the  exit  of  the  nozzle, which  is  equal  to  the  square  root  of two  times  H  five  minus  six. All  right,  um  The other  thing  that  we  know about  this,  so  again, if  I  if  I  did  this  properly, and  I  drew  my  nozzle,  okay. So  here's  my  control  volume  of  my  nozzle. This  is  my  inlet,  that's  my  outlet, state  five,  state  six. There's  no  change  in  mass  in  here. M.in  is  dot  is  M  dot. There's  no  change  in  energy  in  here. E  in  is  e  dot  out. This  is  a  consequence  of  that. And  then  when  it  comes  to  entropy, there's  no  change  in entropy  in  the  control  volume. It's  adiabatic,  it's  reversible. And  so  what  that  means  is  that little  S  five  is  equal  to little  S  six,  right?  All  right. The  final  step  here. Well,  there's  two  things  that  we  need  to  do. The  first  is  we  need  to define  propulsion  force  and  power, and  then  we  need  to  define or  we've  already  defined  the  q.in. So  in  order  to  define  the  efficiency, we  need  to  know  the  propulsion  power. And  before  we  get  to  power, we  need  to  know  force. So  think  back  to  high  school. Transform  yourselves. F,  Newton's  second  law,  right? So  we  have  a  force, and  this  is  equal  to  the  mass  flow  rate times  the  velocity  at  the  exit minus  N  dot  times  the  velocity  at  the  inlet. Where  does  this  come  from?  Um,  momentum is  equal  to  mass  times,  um,  times  velocity. If  I  take,  um  the  derivative  of  this,  right? So  what  dp  dt, this  is  dm  dt  times  V plus  dv  dt,  okay?  That's  force. F  equals  ma  is usually  how  Newton's  second  law  is  presented, but  it's  not  totally  correct. F  is  equal  to  M  dot  times your  velocity  plus  A,  okay? Yeah.  All  right. Let's  move  this  to  the  center. All  right.  Right?  And  so this  is  what  we're  talking  about  here,  right? So  this  M  dot  times the  velocity  is  what  we're talking  about  in  this  case. All  right.  Mmm.  All  right. Good.  So  what  is  propulsion  power then?  So  propulsion  power. So  our  W  dot  P  is  equal  to. So  to  get  this  into  power, I  need  to  have  a  force  acting on  a  distance  per  unit  time. Force  on  a  distance  per  unit  time. Force  times  the  velocity  is  that,  okay? So  if  I  take  this  force, which  I've  defined  here,  F, and  I  times  it  by the  velocity  of  the  aircraft, I'm  going  to  get  propulsion  power. And  the  efficiency, the  efficiency  of  this  EAP  is nothing  but  this  w  dot  P  divided  by  Q  dot  N? All  right.  Where  am  I  at  on  this? All  right,  I  can  probably  erase  this. All  right.  So  our  w  dot  P  here  is  equal to  m  dot  times the  velocity  at  the  exit,  which  is  what? What's  the  velocity  of  the  exit? Minus  the  velocity  at  the  inlet. And  then  this  is  times the  velocity  of  the  aircraft. Huh.  Yes.  So  this  is nothing  but  velocity  one. And  what  we'll  assume for  the  purposes  of  this  analysis, not  for  the  takeoff  part  which  is  relevant, is  we're  going  to  assume that  this  is  equal  to the  velocity  of  the  aircraft,  okay. Which  makes  sense.  I  have a  stationary  device,  okay? I  have  air  coming  in  at  some  velocity. And  I  was  saying  that  that's the  velocity  that  I'm  moving  with,  okay? Good.  So  this  is  your  formula  for  that. So  I  have  w  dot  P  all  set. I  OW  six  NOW  this  is  a  given. The  M  dot  was  also  a  given,  so  I'm  set  there. The  q.in  the.in. Right,  so  my  q.in  here  is  equal to  my.h4  minus  my  H three,  which  I  think  I  had  already  written. Where  did  I  write  it? Yeah,  I  already  wrote  it  here. Let  me  start  highlighting  some  things. So  my  q.in  I  had  here. All  right.  So  with  my  q.in,  I'm  good. With  my  W  dot  propulsion  there,  I'm  good. My  efficiency  is  good. This  is  done.  The  velocity  at  state  six, we  determined  through  here. This  is  also  done,  and um  If  we  come  here  at  state  five, okay,  I  need  to  determine the  temperature  and  the  pressure. And  so  what  do  I  know? I  can  start  stringing  things  together, but  certainly  what  I  know  is I  know  the  entropy. I  know  basically  my  entropy at  state  five.  All  right. Yes. And  I  would  have  determined H  five  from  here,  right? So  H  five,  I  would  have determined  through  this  analysis. So  by  knowing  the  entropy  specific  entropy at  state  five  and  the  enthropy  at  state  five, because  this  is  a  pure  substance, I  have  complete  information, and  then  from  Picalorn  dot  notation, I  have  in  dot  pure,  okay? All  right. Yeah,  and  if  you  want  to  substitute  numbers, pull  that  up  and  look  at  that,  okay? But  that's  roughly  what  you  need  to  know. So  what  are  they  take home  message  and  jet  propulsion? Many  things  are  isentropic. So  the  diffuser,  the  compressor, the  turbine,  and  the  nozzle, isentropic,  okay? So  that  means  adiabatic, and  it  means  reversible. One  key  piece  of  information. The  second  thing  is  we  treat  this  as stationary  for  the  purposes  of  the  analysis. So  we  have  this  and our  inlet  velocity  then  is  W  one. That's  obvious,  but  then  we  set  that  equal to  the  velocity  of  the  aircraft,  okay? You  need  to  recall  that. Everything  else  you've  done, you've  done  steady  flow analysis  of  a  diffuser, a  compressor,  a  heat  exchanger, which  we  do the  standard  error  assumptions  for. You've  done  turbine,  and you've  also  done  nozzle,  right? So  each  of  these  individually  is  there. The  next  key  part  of  it,  which sets  it  apart  from  the  other  analyses is  all  of  the  work  out  of the  turbine  you  put  into  the  compressor. So  there  is  no  net net  shaft  work  out  of  the  system,  okay? So  you  use  that  then  that  fact to  determine  the  enthalpy  at  state  five, what's  exiting  on  the  turbine. And  that's  pretty  much  it.  Yes,  please. No,  you  start  like  a  good  book at  the  beginning.  All  right. So,  what  do  we  know? Yeah,  let's  walk  through  that. So  what  you  know  is  the  inlet  temperature  and the  limp  pressure  that  you're  given,  right? So  T  one  and  P  one,  you  know. T  one  and  P  one,  you  know, so  you  have  complete  information about  that  state. State  two,  you're  told  this. You're  told  that  the  pressure at  state  three  is ten  times  P  two,  and  it's  isentropic. S  three  is  S  two. So  I  have  pressure. I  have  specific,  I'm  sorry,  here. So  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one. Let  me  back  up  a  second. So  T  one  and  P  one, we  have,  um  That's  good. For  state  two,  you  know, the  specific  entropy  at  state  two  is  equal  to the  specific  entropy  at  state  one. And  you  also  know  the  pressure,  right? You  basically  know, I'm  sorry,  not  the  pressure, you  know,  the  enthalpy  at  state  two. So  with  the  specific  entropy and  enthalpy  at  state  two, you  have  complete  information  of state  two,  right? So  it  means  you  know  the pressure  at  state  two,  right? The  pressure  at  State  three  is ten  times  P  two,  so  you  have  that. S  three  is  S  two,  now  state  three. Okay,  State,  um,  State  four  here. So  for  state  four, you  are  given  it  was  stated  in  the  problem, but  you  were  given  the temperature  at  state  four, and  this  is  an  isobaric  process, the  pressure  at  state  four  is  going to  be  equal  to  the  pressure  at  state  three. To  the  point  that  was  brought  up  before, you  could  also  treat that  isochorically  if  you were  doing  a  detonation  process. This  is  solved  here.  You  know,  state  four. Inlet  here,  four  to  five, you  know  that  this  is  isentropic. So  you  know  the  entropy  at  state  five. And  from  this  analysis  of all  the  workout  goes  into  the  compressor, you  can  determine  the  enthropy  at  state  five. Now  I  have  enthropy  and  I  have  entropy  next. Onto  onto  State  six. I'm  holding  the  wrong  one.  Hold  on. State  six. For  State  six  then  what  you know  is  that  it's  isentropic, S  is  equal  to  S  five, and  P  six  is  equal  to  what? Yeah,  it's  the  exit,  right? It's  basically  back  out  to  there,  right? So  P  six  is  P  one, and  then  you  have  that  there.  Okay? But  again,  I  would  say  all of  the  previous  things that  we  have  done  would allow  you  to  string  together  that  process. Other  questions  about  jet? Yes,  please.  Yeah,  you're told  the  velocity  of  an  aircraft. Yeah.  So  again,  open  that, read  it,  and  yeah.  Other  questions? Yes,  please.  You  assume  that? Because  I  want  to make  this  happen  in  40  minutes. Okay. But  it's  not  unreasonable if  you  think  about  you're  moving. Basically  I  could  have something  that's  not  moving and  air  blowing  at  me, or  I  could  be  moving,  and  then  the  air essentially  looks  stationary  with respect  to  me  flying,  right? So  you  could  do  one  or  the  other. There's  a  reference  frame, right?  Okay.  Other  questions? Okay. Great.  Yeah,  and  think  about  detonation. Okay,  how  does  it  look  like if  you  want  to  diagram  that? So  again,  what  you  need  to  get  into  the  habit of  doing  now  is  defining  these  states. You  know,  use  the  process  classify calor  and  make,  you  know,  plots. So  here,  this  kind  of  illustrates the  isotropic  nature  of literally  every  process  except for  the  combustion  chamber. So  one  to  two  diffuser  isotropic, two  to  three,  compressor  isotropic, three  to  four  heat  addition, four  to  five  turbine  isotropic, five  to  six  nozzle  isotropic,  okay? And  check  yourself,  right? Look  at  that  and  see.  Does  that  make  sense? Um,  you  can  represent  that also  in  a  PV  diagram,  right? We  said  that  P  one  and  P  six should  be  the  same,  right?  I'm  going  to  that. So  that's  what  you  would  expect  there. I'd  expect,  you  know, something  with a  higher  specific  volume  right  at the  at  the  exit  because  it's  hotter. T  six  is  hotter  than  T  one, so  there  I'd  expect  a  higher specific  volume  at  the  exit,  okay? But  three  to  four,  heat  addition,  isobaric. That's  what  I'm  looking  for  there,  okay? So  plot.  This  is  a  graph  this is  a  graphing  class.  All  right. So  If  you  really  want to  be  efficient  or  you really,  really  want  to  go  fast  there, you'll  end  up  designing probably  something  that  looks  like this  with  all  the  need of  those  different  components. These  are  called  ram  jets,  all  right? My  understanding, I  do  not  work  in  this  field, but  when  I  was  a  student  some  years  ago, I  was  told  these  things  are very  hard  to  start,  okay? Once  you  get  them  going,  right,  they  can  go, but  they  are  difficult  to basically  start  from  the  ground, but  they  can  go  fast,  they're  light, they're  very  efficient  there,  okay? Towards  the  comment  about  compressibility, this  is  not  the  class  in  compressibility. I  have  some  comments  about that,  like  what  it  means. But  in  short, if  you  want  to  make  things  that go  supersonic, you  need  to  have a  very  specific  type  of  nozzle. This  is  called  the  D  Laval  nozzle,  right? Gustave  De  LaVall  was a  Swedish  guy  who  made  milk,  okay? Alpha  Laval. Has  anyone  heard  of  Alpha  Laval? Is  anyone,  they  make  heat  exchangers. They're  still  a  company.  That's  the  Laval. I  believe  that's  the  Laval  in  the  name. But  if  you  want  to  make  something  that  goes faster  than  the  speed  of sound,  this  is  what  you  need  to  do. You  have  a  diverging  nozzle. You  bring  in  a  fluid  to  here, and  this  is  all  what's  called  subsonic. It's  moving  a  speed  that's less  than  the  speed  of  sound. You  compress  the  heck  out  of  this until  it  hits  the  throat  here,  okay? The  throat.  At  the  throat, you're  moving  sonic. You  are  at  one  Mach  one. At  this  condition,  if you  do  any  further,  right, try  to  put  any  further  additions into  pressure,  more  will  not  move  through. Because  it's  a  throat,  it  becomes  choked. You  are  choked,  okay? Out  of  this  at  the  back  end  there, this  is  where  things  can  then  get  supersonic. So  everything  that  you  put  in  and you  compress  the  hell  out  of  it, at  the  end  of  that,  it  will  be allowed  to  expand  and  it  moves. The  analysis  of  this  can  be  done, and  it  is  also  isentropic. So  these  types  of nozzles  are  called  isentropic. There  are  other  ones  that  are  isenthalpic. That's  what  we  work  with  when  we  do research,  isenthalpic. But  these  things  can  be modeled  and  all  of  that. We're  working  on  a  section, especially  for  the  aeross  of  some  content towards  the  end  of  the  semester that  we  can  give  you  on  Prairie  learn, some  additional  reading  and some  stuff  to  have. So  at  least  you  know  the  terminology,  okay? All  right. I  will  go  through  this. I  won't  be  able  to  do  the  full  thing  for  it. I  expect  you  to  read  this. I  spent  a  lot  of  time  with  this going  through the  analysis  and  the  derivation, but  the  too  long  and  didn't read  is  that  until  now I  haven't  really  given  you a  cycle  that  is  Carne,  okay? You've  done  elements  of  it. If  you  remember,  when  I  told  you, Hey,  here  was  this  piston  cylinder, I  put  heat  in,  and  there's an  equal  amount  of work  that's  transferred  out. This  is  the  first  stage  of what's  called  the  Sterling  cycle,  okay? So  I  do  the  heat  in and  the  workout  isothermally. Ar?  I  then,  um  at  that  point. So  I'm  doing  heat  in  and  work  out, and  I'm  doing  that  isothermally, alright?  That's  good. The  next  stage  in  the  process  as  I  allow um  I  allow  basically my  device  to  expand  and  cool,  okay? So  I  do  go  adiabatic  expansion. So  there's  some  work  transferred  out, and  I  allow  my  device  to  cool,  all  right? And  then  the  third  step  is essentially  I  compress  it, and  while  I'm  compressing it,  it's  heating  up, so  I  transfer  heat  out, right  at  constant  temperature. So  I  cool  isothermally. And  then  I  continue  to  compress reversively  but  adiabatically. So  it  means  that  I  warm  up  I warm  up  my  system.  All  right. So  all  of  that's  fine  and  well. But  if  you  really  want  to  get  this to  be  a  uh, like  a  carnal,  basically  a carno  level  of  efficiency. That  process  of  the  cooling and  the  heating  there, you  would  love  to  have what's  called  a  regenerator. So  if  you  remember  last  time  when we  were  talking  about  the  Braden  cycle, the  purpose  of  a  regenerator is  that  you  get  to  have  yourself kind  of  like  a  boost  or  like a  heating  effect  or  a  cooling  effect without  actually  having  to put  extra  heat  into  the  system,  okay? So  what  does  one  of  these  cycles  look  like? So  there's  two  types.  One  is Sterling  and  one  is  Ericsson,  okay? Sterling  is  essentially  a almost  like  if  you  think, you  know,  a  closed  system. So  it's  a  piston  cylinder  one, okay,  that  gets  you  to  Carne  efficiency. Ericsson  is  like  a  steady  flow  device, turbines,  compressor  heat  exchangers,  right? So  it's  like  Sterling  is like  kind  of  like  an  auto  or  a  diesel  cycle, but,  like,  as  efficient  as  it  can  be. Ericsson  is  like  a  Brayton, somewhat  like  a  Brayton, but  as  efficient  as  that  can  be,  right? It  basically  gets  you  to Karin,  right?  All  right. So  step  one,  as  I  mentioned, you  have  heat  in and  workout.  Great.  All  right? You  then  continue  to expand  adiabatically  there. You  then  slide  this  whole  thing over  a  regenerator. You  basically  slide  this  whole  thing over  a  regenerator  here, which  absorbs  some  of  the  heat,  okay? What  would  this  look  like?  You  want to  patent,  like,  figure  it  out. Like,  go  in  and look  and  come  up  with  a  good  idea. This  could  be  something  that's  like a  metal  foam,  right? But  the  idea  is  that  when  I move  that  hot  fluid  over  this  thing, it  retains  some  of  that  heat  and  cools down  and  cools  down  the  fluid. Again, you  continue  with  the  movement  to  the  end. So  now  this  is  this  gas is  at  a  low  temperature. He  was  high.  I  transfer  heat into  the  regenerator  and  I'm  at  a  low. And  now  what  I  do  is  I  transfer  work  in, I  compress,  and  then  I  take  heat  out,  okay? Um,  you  know, and  then  I  sort  of,  like,  go  back,  right? The  slide  this  thing back  over  the  regenerator. I  warm  it  back  up,  and  I start  from  the  beginning,  okay? But  the  key  element  is  if you  want  to  get  something,  again, either  a  closed  system  type  of piston  cylinder  device  or a  steady  flow  device, if  you  really  want  to approach  carnoefficiencies, you  have  to  have  an  element  that  can store  energy  thermally within  the  cycle,  okay? We  call  that  regeneration,  right? Again,  yeah,  this  will  make  more  sense. I  think  when  we  get  into the  end  of  Lecture  ten,  if  I  have  time, then  I'll  try  to  go  through  and  then  derive maybe  the  Sterling  cycle  and  go through  a  detailed  analysis  with  it,  right? But  to  get  to  be  Carne,  right? With  this  system,  you'll  be  able  to  show  that essentially  that  you'll  get an  efficiency,  which  is,  you  know, one  over  L  divided  by  H, if  you  analyze  this  there, and  it's  only  possible  because  you  have this  regeneration  step  there. Okay? All  right.  Other  questions? Okay,  this  is  what  it  would  look  like. Again,  I'm  going  to  do the  analysis,  but  in  short, this  is  what  your  temperature  entropy diagrams  look  like  one  to  two. And  this  whole  process  of  how  do  I  go 4-1  and  warm  up  without  heat  addition, it's  all  of  that,  you  know, area  under  the  curve  here, essentially  transferring  heat  over  into  this. This  is  how  you  do  it.  All  right? Okay,  with  that,  I'm  going  to close  like  1  minute  early. So  if  you  have  questions,  I'm  up here  there.  Thank  you.
