 OK, so hello everyone. My name is Claudia O'Hale. I'm a new starting assistant professor here in Mechanical Engineering at Berkeley. Somehow his microphone is a bit off. I don't know. So I've just been told that Berkeley time is 10 past. So in principle, we should have started. But I'm new here to Berkeley. so I'm just kind of getting used to all the different things of how things work. Coming in. I did actually find it. Thanks so much for coming out. Thank you. And so finally we did also get the screen down. Welcome to ME40 to Thermodynamics. This is really kind of an exciting course for you, I guess, most in the second year. of the undergrad is one of the first kind of engineering courses that goes really more into the specific expertise of mechanical engineering, and it's going to be a foundation for a lot of different topics that you'll study later on. So it's really an important course. And today we'll basically cover a couple of things. On one hand, just kind of organizational things. We'll look at the different things on the class syllabus. And then and the later part, we're also just going to motivate this course a bit, basically looking at why is thermodynamics important, why do we care about thermodynamics, and so forth. Yeah. So with this, I guess we can just start with the very basics. What is thermodynamics? What are we studying here in this course? And really, very generally, thermodynamics is the science of energy. So that's kind of taken in a very broad sense, the science of energy. And thermodynamics, as kind of by word, derives from the Greek word, thermae and dynamis, as you see there, meaning heat and power. So talking about the kind of science. of energy, here we're mostly looking at ways of heat to power conversion or different ways of energy conversion that we'll see. And for us, this is mostly involving some form of heat, then potentially trying to convert it into mechanical or also electrical energy. So as you see there, it basically involves different kind of energy storage, energy transformation, also refrigeration, cycles, but also kind of finding or determining the properties of materials and the relationship between these different properties of materials. And so, yeah, thermodynamics really kind of an important topic already since the very beginning, as you can see there, but also later on then, you know, when people kind of developed ways of how to make use of heat, how to convert heat into mechanical energy, for example, with the steam engine over there. And before going into the details, though, this is the course team that will kind of guide you to the course. We have two graduate student instructors and two readers that are on the course. Specifically, Jackie is going to be the lead GSI. second year grad student in mechanical engineering. He specifically works on thermodynamics in the micro nanoscale looking at optical measurement of really kind of fundamental transport properties in two-dimensional materials. So these are materials that are a few atoms thick, so let's say. Then we have Prashond who's also supporting as a GSI. He's specifically, I think he's a third-year graduate student and he's looking at ocean engineering flows in this where thermodynamics also has some relevance. He's mostly looking at computational simulations of ocean flows. And then we have the two readers, Janelle and Siad, and Janelle is the second year of mechanical engineering and Sead is a third year aerospace engineering student. And they basically, both of them did really well in the course last semester so potentially any of the students excelling in this course may also then be interested in maybe taking up a reader position in the following semesters or so forth so then very kind of from from the beginning what are you going to learn in this course in Termidynamics ME 40 I'm just putting up there kind of the learning goals and the things that you can expect to get after having taken this course and you'll see that that's basically we'll start at the very beginning kind of learning about the different laws of thermodynamics so the first law of thermodynamics which is basically a law of conservation conservation of energy so for example if you've taken a fluid mechanics, similar to conservation of mass. You can also put up a law of conservation of energy, essentially around the control volume. And secondly, we have the second law. That is then basically, maybe a bit more general formulation, but the second law basically says that the chaos over time only kind of increases. So, for example, if you have a perfume that you kind of dispense into the air, the perfume will always kind of diffuse away and distribute in a room and over time your concentration or your smell kind of decays. Or if you have a cup of hot coffee that you place on your desk in the morning, if you leave it there for a sufficiently long time, the temperature will go down. heat will diffuse away and basically exchange with the surrounding and if you leave it even longer the water evaporates and essentially the surrounding and the coffee itself basically come to an equilibrium that is at a state of increased chaos to before so maybe if you think of your your room back home like if you never clean up essentially chaos always increases and that's essentially what the second law says is a very general kind of law that has applications in many fields beyond just thermodynamics then as a second part basically will will be able to kind of describe this first and second law in your own language finding ways then to kind of apply it on relatively simple problems but then essentially also looking at combination of this first law and second law and more elaborate problems where we're looking at, for example, analyzing thermodynamic cycles and essentially seeing where we can apply this second law to determine different states in a cycle and to determine kind of what is the work that we, for example, need in a thermodynamics. cycle or what is the kind of work that we can extract from that. And so lastly then, also looking at ways to synthesize this knowledge of the different laws, finding out how we can actually use the laws to improve the systems, to make them more efficient, to have a cycle run with higher efficiency if we improve certain parts of this. Then basically also look at problems or specific cases where a second law, for example, breaks down. So these are, for example, a case of this is a perpetuum mobile, so that's kind of an apparatus that just infinitely moves and never kind of breaks down or so. And there are some instances where under certain conditions, you could say that the second law is violated, but in most cases this is essentially not possible. So we basically are going to analyze these systems and show that they're essentially unphysical and cannot be realized because they're violating the second law here. Then another important part is also just finding out where the boundaries of our kind of thermodynamic understanding here in this class is going to be. So here we're mostly going to look at classical thermodynamics and engineering thermodynamics. So in one part we'll specifically look at cases that cannot be described using these tools. And what I mean by that is, for example, if we go to the micro or nanoscales, so to very small dimensions, the approximations that we'll do here, essentially they break down and we have to basically give up this continuum approximation and we cannot use the simple formulism that we use here. So we'll touch on this as well. and ultimately in terms of evaluating yourself but also your peers as you kind of learn in this course the discussion sections are going to be very useful and so this point here is specifically very useful for you to kind of go to the discussion section look at problems together with your peers interact on these problems correct them or or yourself and in this kind of have another way of learning that goes beyond the just kind of the lecture style instruction that we have here. Yeah, then an essential part in thermodynamics is these kind of databases. These databases will mostly use for determining the properties of different materials that we work with. and it used to be that mostly you determine these material properties from tables that is basically in a hard copy book and each of you would basically get a copy of this book and then by hand with a calculator determine what are the different properties of this material at a specific temperature and so forth. So then what thermodynamics essentially then to a big part came down to when I used to take this course a few years ago is essentially who can the fastest work with the tables and determine the properties and so forth. But that's not really, you know, a very big, a very big instructional value, I'd say. So what we're going to do in this course, we'll touch up on these tables, see how you determine values by ourselves using a calculator, but then we're also going to heavily rely on Python, basically ways that you can import these tabulated values into Python and then just automatically determine these values to Python by running a script. And also very, very briefly, we'll touch a bit on the history of thermodynamics as they kind of emerged specifically looking at this kind of engineering thermodynamics for this course here. Okay, so a very important part of the course is, of course, homework, and so for this course we use basically an online learning. tool or an auto grader that is called Prairie Learn. So this tool was basically developed by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. It is essentially an auto-grader where once the homeworks are up, you can log in. You will see a set of problems and you will basically be given a problem variant that has a certain system, let's say a cycle described with specific temperatures and so forth, and you'll be able to put in your solution or your numerical value to the question. And what is nice about this kind of learning tool is that you will get direct feedback in terms of you solving this problem. So you will directly see when you put in the answer if it is correct or if it is wrong. So if it's correct, that's perfect. You basically attain the points required there. And if it's incorrect and you made a mistake, the way we do it here is essentially you can generate a new problem variant. So you will have the same or similar problem as before, but with different numerical values. And what that allows you to do is basically look again over your, approach to the problem and try to essentially solve this problem again by submitting another solution to it. And so the way we'll do it here is essentially you can have unlimited trials in solving these problems. I definitely encourage you if you see after one or two trials you don't get the right value or you're not thinking through this correctly come for example and visit in the office hour and discuss with the GSIs to get some feedback or explanation but that's essentially how it works and so for for you to enroll in this there's this link over there that everyone should basically log in by this Friday and for there you can log in with your Berkeley credentials you can From this scroll-down list, you can select the course ME-40, and then you're basically subscribed to the homework problems. Then the homework assignments then will essentially be uploaded and posted every Friday. So the first homework is going to be posted this Friday. So at midnight, so basically Friday morning, early morning. you'll be able to access the problem and you can start solving it. And typically you have exactly one week to solve it until late Friday evening to get full credit essentially. And so the idea here is for you essentially to stay engaged in the course and every week look at the homework. If for some reason you cannot get the homework on time, you can see that the late policy for homework is shown in this kind of graph over here. So for about eight days here, you can get 100% credit in submitting your work. But then once you're late, your credit kind of slowly, slowly goes down. So being one day late, if you submit on Saturday, you get 95% credit if you submit on Sunday it's 90% credit and then I think on like Tuesday this slope kind of decreases further so yeah essentially what this means you can submit it late your credit will go down and that's kind of to encourage you to stay up to date with the course at some point so if you're two weeks late this is going to flat out at 50% and you can submit late after that as well and the final date basically for submitting the homework is what we'll see before the end of the module that is essentially before the midterm for one section or before the final exam so beyond this there's also a drop policy that I like to have on the homework meaning that the lowest scoring homework that you have is basically dropped from the final grade calculation and that's just basically giving you some leniency and also some understanding that during one week of the semester maybe there's something going on, maybe you're not feeling well or so. And so that's basically why we have this drop policy that you can basically for once not feel bad about not doing great on the homework or for once be late or so forth. So that's basically for the leniency. Then some further comments. So this is what the homework essentially will look like that shows parts of the first homework. And so if you see this, don't be surprised and wonder like what is going on with Claudio. What is he doing to us? It looks like a lot of problems here. In Homework 1, I think it's in total about 10 problems. But these different problems are really kind of tuned to the difficulty of the problem or tuned to the expected time that you should spend on them. So they shouldn't take too long individually to select. and most of them are kind of single answer or multiple choice problems. So if you do end up spending too much time on a specific problem or so, feel free to go to office hour and consult with GSIs and so forth. And as we'll progress further in the course, essentially what we'll do is this kind of number of problems per homework is going to narrow down and it's going to come down, but essentially they're, their difficulty level is kind of going to increase at the same time. Yeah. Any questions on anything covered so far yet? No questions? Some questions over here. Yes, please. For this, I'll just show you the schedule of the entire course in just a second. So if we'll just one second I'll cover that. Were you something specific on the the homeworks or other immediate questions now? Okay. So all of the other kind of details on the course, organizational things is going to be covered in these B courses website. I think every one of you should have access to this B course's website through there we're posting announcements that you see for example over let's see you see for example over here posting announcements on different things for the course you should have seen this kind of first announcement that I've put up on the weekend for this first lecture And so we'll try to essentially do all the communications about class from the instructor team to you guys through B courses, through announcements like that. If you have any kind of questions or something else that you need help or you want to communicate to someone from the instructor team, please reach out to us by email, putting this ME40 in the subject line as showing. shown over there, and this is kind of the most efficient way to reach us. There is also the possibility of using this B-courses website to put discussions or questions out there, but they may not be frequently really visited by GSA staff and so forth. So if you have really something important to look at, just write us an email with this subject line. And so on this B courses website, you've seen that there's kind of these modules, but also these pages. And essentially, each page on this B courses website is going to correspond to one week of the course. So currently we've uploaded page one on just basic introduction. And in this page, you will see the different things such as lectures, slides that I will upload after the lecture, links to homework, then a mandatory pre-work, if there is something like a video, a text to read, or something else, it will be posted there. But then also the mandatory reading for the lecture for each week, essentially. So for this week is chapter one in the book that I'll show in just a second. And yeah, with all of this like mandatory pre-work or mandatory reading, it's not that I'm going to have an in-class quiz or something on what comes in this text, but it's essentially for you to stay up to the course, up to date with the lectures and so forth, so for you to really make the most of it and kind of build more understanding on this. What we'll also post here on these pages essentially is the videos to the course lectures. So what is going on is essentially now we're recording video and audio of the course and I'll basically post it on this website after the course shortly thereafter. And essentially it's just, or what I found is that it's very useful and good for students. to also be able to access the videos afterwards, maybe to re-watch some of the course, or, yeah, watch the videos at another time if it's more convenient for you. So that means for you, like, you can also just stay up to date by watching these videos. You don't necessarily have to attend here. I don't take attendance, but what will essentially do is we'll have some in-class. discussions on different topics where essentially we'll interact with each other. And these in-class discussions, I want to put it up on the website. I want to put it in these videos just to essentially give space and room for a more open discussion. And so you won't be able to kind of see any of these discussions if you're not attending the lecture. Okay, so then the course itself is essentially structured into three modules. The three models, you can see over there, although the font is really small, but each week kind of covers one page, and after each module, we'll have an exam. So after module one, we'll have midterm one, then we'll have midterm two after module two, and at the end we'll essentially have the final exam there. The textbook that we'll use is this thermodynamics and engineering approach shown over here by Chengles. Now this is available online through the Berkeley Library with the link given over there, so please go and check out this link to stay up to date with the readings. There are also other kind of books that I can recommend. For example, I myself, I've used as Moran and Shapiro. When I was taught Thermodynamics, I think it's a very good book. But the jengels here is essentially the book that will closely follow with the lectures. So I'd encourage you to stick to this. If you're more interested in kind of getting more resources beyond that, check with me or the GSI. to be referred to more advanced literature. Yes, so this we covered just a moment ago. Lectures will be recorded. And about midterms and final exams, so there's going to be two midterms, one final exam. The first midterm is a bit special in a sense that it will be held at the computer-based testing facility. The midterm will be done using this online learning tool of Prairie Learn. So what you'll do for this first midterm, essentially, you will schedule a course on, you will schedule a time with this computer testing facility around two days or so where the midterm is held, and you can independently go there, take the exam, and basically add your own time. And there's no need, basically, for having a proctored midterm session, as you would have in usual courses with a pen and paper and so forth. So about this, there's more kind of information to come, how to go through this computational testing facility and so forth. But then midterm two and the final exam, or let's say traditional pen and paper exams. And then there's also going to be a thermodynamics project, which will get a bit more information in the following week. But essentially, this thermodynamics project is a more applied problem of thermodynamics, where you can essentially apply what you learn in the lecture to kind of analyze this problem and kind of elaborate a bit further with your own kind of input and creativity in terms of how you want to analyze this. So essentially it's kind of an open-ended problem that leaves a lot up to you. Finally, the entire grade of the course is set together, or the final points of the course, is set together as you've seen over there, with midterms giving 40%. no, 40 points, final exam, 70 points and so forth. The total points you can attain are 200, but the grades that essentially are curved. And in a typical lecture or a course year, I think 70% of the courses, 70% of the participants are usually with a grade of B or so, as I recollect. So it's specifically written in the syllabus, if you're interested in the details. Then there's also this exam recovery policy, so if one of your midterms didn't go well, or if either of your midterms didn't go well, but your final exam went really well, there's this formula over there that basically allows you to increase your midterm grade in that sense. So this final exam offers you kind of the possibility to further improve your performance there. Then quickly on office hours, we have three different office hours as shown over there on Tuesday, Thursday, Thursday, and Friday from the GSIs, but also myself. I just wanted to get a quick idea of how these times work out for you. they're two at 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and one just around noon. So how, so for example, how does Tuesday 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. work for you. Because I don't want to hold an office hour if you have another class or something. So let's say by a show of hands for who does Tuesday 10. a.m. to 11 a.m. not work as an office hour. That is relatively few. For who does Thursday, 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. not work. Still relatively few. So for who does the last office hour of 12 to 1 p.m. not work? That's it's more, okay. And are there people that can't do any of these office hours at all because they always have lectures? One or two. Okay, how about, so for the people that can't do noon to 1 p.m. on Friday, does it help shifting it later, let's say to 1 p.m. or so? Shifting it earlier, potentially. Okay, so if no one complains, we'll just shift it earlier from 11 to noon in that case. Okay, so let's quickly look at the schedule for the class. We're now here on Wednesday, Friday, the first problem site is going to be posted, and for the first week, essentially there's something a little different happening with the homework. What will happen is for the first homework, you'll have two weeks to solve it, and this is mostly because students are still joining from the wait list as we get further along into the course. So first problem sets you'll have two weeks to hand in, but then the second problem set, as you see here, is again normal. You essentially have one week to hand it in. Then around two weeks into the course, we'll get more information on these projects. Further into the course we have this midterm here around the beginning of March. And you'll see essentially that here for the week of the midterm there's no homework due. Then we get started with homeworks again. We have spring recess here but then the second midterm as well coming up. further homeworks and then the reading review and recitation week and then finally the final exam that is still to be announced in terms of the place and time but we'll communicate that in due time and so that just to finish up a bit on the course organization things So from talking to previous students that have taken the course, I was kind of able to get their feedback. And so this is in one part mostly for me to kind of make adjustments to the course and so forth. But the feedback that I got was that the course is very fast-paced, that homeworks are long and required tedious work, that exams can be extremely difficult and also things like sometimes lectures and homeworks are out of sync and so essentially showing this here because these are kind of things that I want to put attention to in kind of going along in the course so we'll see if we can reduce a bit the workload on the homework and we'll be cognizant of kind of the difficult the level of the exams. The other reason why I'm showing this also is just kind of to gauge a bit your expectation. So it is really a kind of a fast-paced course because there's a lot of material that we have to go through. And so essentially this is saying really stay kind of up to date with the course and try not to just let go and start working again. before the midterm. It really requires your continuous attention with the homeworks and interaction and discussion sections with your GSIs and so forth, because it is really kind of a challenging course. Finally, also, if there are any kind of gaps in a prior knowledge, I'm happy to have like a refresher session or so. So if there's a group of students of 10 or more that aren't really experienced in one area or so forth that will require in the course. I'm happy to do this. So for this, please contact me or the GSIs and bring this to you through our attention. We have no other way of knowing this, like whether you're missing a background in one specific thing. So please give us some feedback and then we'll be able to take action. So with this, we'll break it up and do this kind of ice breaker activity. So in this course, at times, we'll use this poly-V. So please scan this QR code over here. And for the next three minutes or so, discuss with your neighbor. Introduce yourself just what your degree is, what year you will. are and share with them your favorite TV show that you watch this winter and enter it to the poll let's just come back again for the last few minutes to the course team and see a bit why is thermodynamics really important to study and so we've seen that thermodynamics broadly the science of energy and energy with these different kind of aspects of power conversion and so forth has been like hugely important over the years and so forth but continues to be super important and one way that I wanted to illustrate this is with this graph over here that I prepared and what this graph is showing is essentially the the primary energy consumption per capita of different countries and also the gross domestic product per capita of the corresponding countries and essentially the bubbles that you see represent the population of the countries. And what you see here is essentially that GDP per capita and this primary energy consumption, they correlate to the upper right corner there. And what this means, essentially, with the GDP per capita, is basically a proxy for how wealthy a country is, how wealthy the citizens of a country are. And what this means is essentially the wealthier a country becomes, the more energy intensive its economy essentially becomes. So the wealthier a population becomes, the more energy we require. And the important thing then is essentially, if you look at this graph over here, it's essentially the same thing. It's from a different source here, but the relationship here shows GDP per capita and CO2 emissions by consumption. And the relationship is almost one-to-one. You can kind of map the countries to the same spot. And what this means essentially is that the more wealthier population or more wealthier we become, the more energy we consume, the more CO2 we emit into the atmosphere. And it poses or it kind of puts us in front of the question is how are we going to meet the energy demand in the future with this ever-growing energy demand, but also how can we do it in a clean way that does not emit an extent? excessive amount of CO2. So how can we decarbonize this energy demand, essentially? And so this is one place where thermodynamics plays a key role. We'll have to see, essentially, there's, I think, not enough time to look at this quick exercise over here, but essentially finding ways to meet this growing energy demand, but also finding ways to decarbonize this energy conversion and power conversion is really an important topic that engineers in the future will need to address. And thermodynamics really plays a key role in this. And so with this, we'll just look at a few key examples where we can actually find thermodynamics in application nowadays. Now this is, for example, in airplanes, in the turbofan engines of an airplane, you will find similar things as we'll be studying in this course. You will find a compressor. You will find an expansion or an expander turbine, essentially, that converts the power into thrust. In power plants, essentially, you will see gas turbine and gas-powered power plants, But then in nuclear power plants, you will see steam turbines where this heat is essentially converted into mechanical energy, converted into electricity. Then in cars with internal combustion engine, you essentially have a closed system where you have combustion happening and expansion of the air and the reactions in the combustion chamber. And from this, you extract, again, mechanical energy that allows you then to drive your car. Beyond that, many applications in food processing. For example, if you make cheese, you need to make sure that the cheese is at the right temperature for enough time. Or also with refrigeration in every fridge that you have at home, what you have is essentially in the back. You have a refrigeration cycle of running similar to the cycles that we're essentially studying in this course here. And finally, also room heating or cooling, very essential problems of thermodynamics. And so just looking a bit at the future and finishing up here, where are the key challenges in the future going to lie also for thermodynamics? One big challenge I definitely see in AI, essentially meeting the energy demands, that will be growing more and more to kind of satisfy the energy consumption of running models of artificial intelligence. This is on the side of power generation, but also cooling in data centers. Then we have electrification, decarbonization of power conversion and the development of new kind of technologies. So with this, thanks for sticking around, and we'll see again on Friday. look at the B courses and Prairie Learn. If you have questions, come check by with me. That's fine. So, I just check.