So  the  reduce  retraction  and the  extra  time  they can  do  everything  more  than  that? No.  So  I  anything  more than  that,  give  me  a  heads  up, and  then  I  would  then  we'd move  it  over  to  the  other.  Okay.  Yeah. Yeah. And  we  only  do  it  for  the  first  one,  right? Probably  from  interim  two  or  into old  school  pen  and  paper  in  the  final. We  have  to  see  how  this  goes. It's  like  it's  an  experience  for  all  of  us  to see  I  have  an  overlapping  final. So  we  got  to  figure  that  out  then.  Yeah. I'm  the  So  then we'll  just  do  it  in  another  room. I  don't  know  who  take  precedent. You  should  see  who  takes  precedent. So  if  there's  one  there  must  be  rules  for, like,  which  one  you  do  that  day. If  you  do  me  a  favor, figure  that  out  and  then  let  me know  if  ME  40  gets  or  the  others. And  then  we'll  figure  it  out. Yeah,  no  big  deal. But  easiest  thing  is,  yeah,  I  like  this, but  give  me  heads  up  really  because  I  can handle  everything  as  long as  I'm  given  enough  time. It's  much  more  difficult  one  to  solve. Yeah,  yeah.  No,  I  appreciate  that. So  thank  you  for  doing  that  and  sharing. Alright. Figured  out. I  figured  out  last  time, but  now  I'm  showing  you. But  it's  not  this.  It's  this,  huh? The  reflection  is  from  there, I  think. So Okay. I  I  got  310.  Okay. I'm  going  to  get  started. So  I'd  like  to  begin Okay,  I'm  going  to  talk  loud. So  we  finished  last  lecture with  this  problem  here. So  we  took  the  poll,  and  I'd like  to  basically  go  through  this, make  sure  that  you  understand control  volume  because mid  term  one  is  coming, and  with  mid  term  one, you  need  to  know  control  volume  analysis. Mid  term  one  is  the  magic  word. Next  time,  I'll  say  midterm two.  And  then  final  exam. Alright.  So  within  this  problem,  right? I'm  giving  you  keywords  and  stuff. This  is,  you  know,  you  know, the  full  basically  the  full  equation for  the  First  law, based  of  the  first  law applied  to  a  system  there. So  again,  we  have the  energy  that  can  be  transferred  in, including  the  mass  terms. So  mass  also  taking  any in  minus  what's  out  equals  to the  change  of the  energy  within  the  system  here. This  is  we're  not  dealing  with  the  rates, right,  the  flow  rates  here  with  this. So  that's  how  you  see  the  equation. And  so  the  question  to  you  is  based  on the  phrasing  of  the  question  here, what  do  you  get  rid  of,  right? So  I've  written  the  formula  up  here,  right, and  the  expanded  one  where  I've substituted  the  Theta  and  the  E.  I'm  using the  Theta  and  the  E. This  is  the  book  notation for  simplifying  let's  say, the  turn  containing  enthalpy or  the  internal  energy. So  the  one  where the  mass  is  being  transferred in  and  out  or the  change  in  energy  in  the  system. And  I  had  to  look  over  it. So  I  mean,  if  I  go  with  the  majority  here, so  in  this  case,  I  see  a  24%,  we  like  the  W In  to  keep  the  WN  here. The  next  major  one  is  the  M  the  M.  So  I  have the  M  out  here  by  the H.  That's  effectively  that  term  there. This  marker  is  cooked.  All  right. I  have  an  m2u2,  right,  which  is  here. And  I  have  an  M  one,  one,  which  is  here. So  again,  I'm  going  with  sort  of the  majority  on  that. If  we  start  sort  of  in  reverse, with  the  last  statements  here  on  no  changes in  velocity  or  elevation  changes, what  is  this  code  for? So,  for  those  of  you  who  didn't select  that  as  a  term  to  keep, what  did  that  imply? Jason,  So  So  Jason's  answer  was no  change  in  kinetic  or  potential energy  Right. So  it's  a  lot  of  terms that  basically  go  away. It's  like  Wheel  of  Fortune,  you  know, when  you  get  rid  of  the  letters,  right? So  that's  like  the  equivalent of  the  RST  LN  E,  you  know, knocks  off  a  bunch  with  that. What's  another  word  that's  a  key  word here  for  knocking  things  out? That's  a  good  one. Name?  Joe.  Joe  says  Adiobatic. So  what  do  you  get  rid  of  Joe  with  Adiobatic? Yeah,  so  we  basically  get  rid  of  the  es. And  what  sort  of  the  final  thing  that's within  here  that's  a  Q  into  this  problem. Not  a  Q  CU  EE, not  capital  Q.  So  no  inlet. Oh,  sorry.  So  that's  another,  yeah. Basically,  then  when  there's  no  inlet, then  what  do  we  dump? Yeah.  So  basically,  then  this takes  care  of  this. And  maybe  from  this  side  of the  room  with  a  final  thing  that was  a  keyword  or phrase  that  helped  you  to  simplify? That's  not  Joe  or  Jason. Could  be  Julia.  Yes. Name.  Eddie.  So  you  have  one  inlet, one  exit,  no  inlet,  and  electrical  heating. So  what  is  having electrical  heating  imply  for  you? There  is  Work  in,  right? So  that  stays  there, which  is  then  with  the  majority. Okay?  And  I  would  say,  by  virtue  of  that, so  the  fact  that  you said  that  there's  work  in, there  is  then  no  Yeah. So  then  that  takes  care  of  this.  All  right. And  so  the  final  version  then  of  the  formula, and  what  I  would  have then  from  this  is  that  we'd  have basically  a  W  in  minus. This  is  the  minus  and  M  out  there, out,  and  then  this  is  then  equal  to an  m2u2  minus  and  m11. Okay?  Great.  So  the  purpose  of that  exercise  is  a  lot  of thermo  in  which  you  see  their  word  problems. These  words  have  meaning,  and  they're going  to  make  your  life  easier,  right? Cool.  Any  questions  about  that? I  will  move  it  in  the  middle. Wonderful.  Thank  you  for  participating. Alright.  So  today,  we're  going  to  talk  about some  reversible  irreversible  processes, perpetual  motion,  the  famous  Carno  cycle, and  some  carno  principles. I  don't  know  if  we're  going  to get  to  basically  step  four, but  this  is  what  we're  talking  about  today. Today  close,  right? Module  one  is  closed. So  I  am  done  with  control  volume  analysis. The  burden  is  now  on  you,  do  your  homeworks, do  the  M  exams. If  you  want  to  ask  me,  you  want  excellent, someone  to  ask  me,  you  know, I  want  to  get  a  great  grade. You  S  Bolt  wanted  to  be  very  fast,  right? 958  is  not  easy  for  100,  right? But  he  worked  his  butt  off,  and he  did  it,  and  he  didn't  do  the  average. So  if  you  really  want  to  be  good  with  this, go  beyond  you  know, what  I  started  giving  you, the  book  has  an  excellent um  you  know,  excellent  problems, a  ton  of  them  to  practice  on  a  cross  with  it. I  gave  the  Mock  exams,  gave  you a  flavor  of  my  style,  right? So  you  can  see sort  of  the  style  that  comes  with  it, but  I  recommend  discussion  sections. I  have  extra  office  hours. If  you  look  in  the  B  courses  on the  mid  term  one  page  there, the  mock  exams  are  also  there, so  repetition,  you  know,  practice,  right? Just  like  running.  All  right? Cool.  So  before  we  get  into  that, I  want  to  discuss  this. So  again,  I'm  assuming  you've  done,  you  know, your  readings  and  of  course, watched  any  of  the  sort of  the  pre  work  and  all  of  it. If  you  haven't,  this  is  going  to  be a  very  interesting  exercise  for  you. So  Kelvin,  so  we  talked  about Calvin  as  like  our  temperature  scale. It  was  also  a  person.  And  he worked  on  what  we  call  the  Second  Law,  right? Second  Law  of  Thermodynamics.  And As  part  of  this,  so  he  has  this,  you  know, statement  here,  and  all  these  statements are  on  the  fact  that  we  want  to  take,  right? We  want  to  take  heat, put  it  in,  and maximize  the  work  that  we  get  out,  right? So  we  want  to  basically  put  heat  in  and maximize  the  work  that  comes  out. Saudi  Caro  was  another  person  who  worked  on this  Saudi's  old  man  was  in  Napoleon, basically  worked  with  Napoleon. I  don't  know  how  it  ended  for  him. I  think  none  of  it  ended  very good  based  on  the  movie  I  saw  recently. But  essentially,  you  know, Saudi  was  really  pissed  off  because the  English  sort  of  had  sort  of better  engines  than  him. And  he  thought,  that's  ridiculous. You  know,  the  French  and, you  know,  we  know  our  math  and  all  of  this. We  should  be  able  to  make  better  engines  and better  systems  than  the  guys across  the  channel  there. And  so  he  devoted  his  life  to, like,  look  into  these,  you  know,  details. How  can  I  put  in  some  amount  of,  you  know, heat  and  Max,  sort  of  the  work, useful  work  that  I  get  out  of  it. And  so  he  sort  of  did  it  first, and  as  I  understand  on  the  record. And  then  after  that, people  got  kind  of  like,  Okay, I  need  to  state  this  thing  almost in  sort  of  philosophical  terms, get  it  exactly  right  there. And  so, Calvin's  one  of  the  people  that  wrote  it. I'm  giving  you  this  statement, right,  read  this  statement. I'm  drawing  you  this  system,  right? So  we  have  here  a  let's say,  a  temperature  reservoir. Basically,  a  body  that's at  some  temperature  that  doesn't  change. You're  transferring  heat  then into  this  piston,  right? That,  you  know,  contains  an  ideal  gas. And  it  undergoes  an  isothermal  expansion. So  you  transfer  the  heat  and  you have  the  isothermal  expansion. And  what  I'm  going  to  do  right  now because  this  is  also  going  to  be visible  on  the  pole  is  I'm  going  to  open up  the  pole  for  you  all. And  I  want  you  to  discuss  this,  right? Because  this  is  it  an  important  turning 0.0  important  point  in  in  the  course  here. Right?  Six  B.  All  right, Kelvin's  statement.  Alright. So  that's  launched. See  the  poll  for  basically, I  think  it's  like three  questions  to  go  through, but  discuss  with your  neighbors  look  with  this, and  then  we're  going  to discuss  with  that,  right? Any  questions  about  the  activity? Alright,  Let's  go  5  minutes. Or A,  good  idea. Yeah.  Yeah.  Great.  Is  that  good  Ama? Yeah. Are  we  doing  here? We're  doing.  Expanding?  Yeah. Cool. Which  one?  Are  we  doing  here? And  in  the  back  here?  No,  you're  fine. So  you're  totally,  which  exam? Okay,  great.  I'm  going  to  start present  things  to  get  your  last  answers  in. Okay.  That's  like our  highest  completion  rate  ever. That's  awesome. All  right. So  For  this  question  here, so  we  have  an  ideal  gas,  right. And  so  for  the  ideal  gas, you  know,  we  can  vary  the  temperature, the  pressure,  the  volume  of  it. And  the  question  was, then,  does  internal  what  does internal  energy  depend  on  for  an  ideal  gas? And  a  group  care  to  share  in their  argumentations,  why  they  thought  that. Yes,  please.  Yes. So  So  just  a  little  bit  louder. There's  like,  some  fan  or  something that's  in  my  ear  over  here. Sorry.  Yes. Okay. And  so  that  point  about  the  internal  energy, depending  on  temperature  comes  from  col. Recollection. It's  a  good  one.  Physics  class. Anyone  else  in  here  have an  argument  for  this? Yes,  please  in  the  back.  That  was awesome.  Um.  So  yeah. We  said  we  said  that  it  only depends  on  t  formula. Sure. Sure.  Yeah. So  we  have  a  solid  textbook  answer  here. We  have  someone  who's  taken  a  bit of  statistical  thermo and  recalls  it  more  of  a  mechanism with  it  there. Are  there  any  counter  arguments  for  this? I  love  counter  arguments.  Yes,  please.  S. So  I  just  That's  correct. But  the  thing  is, if  you  think  about  the  process, what  did  I  say  about  the  process? There  you  go.  Okay.  Good. Alright,  let's  move  on  to  the  next  one. That  was  a  good  one.  Also,  good  introduction. That's  sets  the  bar  pretty  high. So  using  the  first  loss a  Delta  is  Q  minus  W  in your  previous  answer  is the  work  performed  by  expanding the  gas  W  equal  to the  heat  which  absorbs  from  the  source. Another  group  care  to  share. They're  thinking?  Sure.  Name? Carly. Yeah.  Yes. Yes.  And  of  course, then,  I  could  see  from  the  first  part, if  one  said  that  that there  was  a  variation  in  the  Delta  U, then  obviously,  I  would  expect,  you  know, the  similar  portion  from before  to  say,  you  know, that  answer  because,  you  know, D  U  is  not  zero. And  again,  when  I  do assessments  and  grading,  right? If  you  get  that  first  part  wrong, I'm  not  going  to knock  you  for  this  part,  right? Because  you're  thinking  correctly  with  it. So  that's  good  answers, but  I  want  to  say  to  Carolyn  that was  well  stated,  right? And  what  is  correct. Okay,  now  the  good  stuff. Is  this  a  contradiction of  Calvin's  postulate? Be  prepared  to  discuss. So,  who  wants  to  discuss?  Who's  brave? Yes,  Jason. And  why  not? Okay.  Equation  satisfied. Another  answer.  Let's  say in  the  camp  of  it  being a  contradiction,  which  is  a  majority  here. Ama. There's  Yeah. Another  answer.  60%  is  a  big  number. Sure.  Z.  From  what  I  understood  device. Yes.  It's  Now  we're  cooking.  Contradiction. All  right.  This  is  great. Next. There  was  another  hand  over  here,  I  think. Or  am  I  imagining  things? Am  I  hallucinating? I  didn't  take  a  statics  exam, so  I'm  not  hallucinating. Okay.  That  was  a  good  joke,  h? Yeah.  All  right.  You're  like,  halfway  up. Are  you  go  for  it?  Go  for  it. El  Mr. Kelvin  didn't  know  about  arn. They  were  on  other  sides  of  the  channel, I  think,  so  that's  a  possibility. Okay.  This  is  good. So  we  say,  Q  is  in  the  W  fully. It's  a  contradiction.  So  I want  to  build  on  I  want  to build  on  that  and  come  back  to  the  slides. So  the  statement  here. Alright? So  a  transformation  whose  only  final  result is  to  transform  into work  heat  extracted  from  a  source, which  is  at  the  same  temperature throughout  is  impossible.  Alright. So  I'm  gonna  draw  something. So  we  started  with  All  right. We  started  with  let's  say, this  state  a  state  one. All  right.  Be  dramatic  about  it. This  is  our  state  two. We  had  a  reservoir, which  is  here  and  Q  coming  in? Same  reservoir  here  with  the  Q  coming  in? We  have  the  PDV  work, which  is  happening,  right? And  so  my  question  to  you  here  is,  yes, we  took  heat, and  we  fully  converted  it  into  work. And  my  question  is, when  you  look  at  that  board, is  the  only  final  result here  between  these  two  pictures, the  fact  that  I  took  Q  and  I  made  it  into W.  Or  do  you  see differences  between  the  two  pictures? The  gas  expanded.  So  what  changed? Okay,  so  we're  saying  pressure  went  down. What's  another  thing  that  we  see  with  this? Sure.  Volume  Volume. The  volume  is  larger.  Right? So  if  you  read  that  statement  then,  here. So  here  we  say  it's  a  contradiction. But  based  on  what  I've just  told  you  about  the  fact that  the  volume  between  them  is  different, do  you  still  think  it's  a  contradiction? Only  final  result.  All  right? It's  not  a  contradiction,  right? Because  these  are  not  the  same  anymore. You  did  transfer  he  into  work, but  you  also  changed the  volume  that  you  have  there,  right? Clear?  Yeah,  it's  deep. It  gets  worse.  Entropy's  coming,  right? So,  but  this  helps  you  to  understand. Alright?  The  point  is  that  if you  think  about  a  system,  right? So  who  the  hell  cares  about  this? This  mental  exercise? Well,  if  you  want  to  make  an  engine,  right? I  agree.  If  you  had  an  engine, where  all  you  did  was  expanded  the  piston, you  could  put  the  heat  in, and  you  could  get  work  out. But  if  you  want  to  do  a  cycle, and  you  want  to  bring  this  back  to  the  start, you  need  to  do  something. What  do  you  got  to  do  there? What  you  know  now that  we've  got  to  this  great  state, what  do  you  think  you  need  to do  to  get  back  to  here? Contract.  So  how  do  we do  that  without  paying  a  huge  penalty? The  answer. Cool  it  down.  Great.  Cool  it  down,  right? And  then  with  this,  we're  going  to get  into,  you  know,  that's  going  to  lead  us, you  know,  a  great  segue into  second  law  and  what's  coming. You  know,  you're  gonna  put  some  heat  in. Alright,  then  I'm  going  to  do  some  work, but  then  you  got  to  take some  heat  out,  right, and  then  contract  to get  back  where  you  started. And  the  fact  that,  you  know, you  put  some  heat  in, you  didn't  just  do  work, you  changed  something  else  in  it,  right? And  this  property  that's coming  soon  entrap  you  know, as  a  mathematical  thing, is  going  to  help  us  to rationalize  this  change that  we've  done,  okay? So  in  short,  that's  the  that's  it. Alright.  Any  questions?  Beautiful. You're  all  doing  great,  even after  statics,  right? Yeah,  so  we  have,  you  know, this  as  the  statement  of  Lord  Calvin. Other  statements  would  be  this. I'm  not  going  to  read  it  you  know  out  loud, but  you're  not  going  to  be  able  to operate  this  with  a  single  reservoir. So  as  the  point  that  was raised  here,  you  know, you're  going  to  have  to  then  put  this probably  into  contact  with something  that  has  a  lower  temperature to  transfer  heat  out  of  it, to  ultimately  be  able  to  do a  cycle  a  cycle  like  that,  right? Super.  And  then,  of  course, everyone  else  thought  they  could have  a  go  at  it  Clausius  from, you  know,  they're  saying  this  statement. Again,  I'm  not  going  to read  it  because  it  makes my  brain  hurt  to  Yeah, I  mean,  but  this  is  an  important part  of  the  second  law. I  mean,  first  law  is like  conservation  of  energy,  right? We  don't  deal  with  creating  energy. We  talk  about  transformations. The  second  law  is  like things  that  are  at  high  concentration. Things  tend  to  move  from  regions  of high  concentration  to  low,  right? You  think  about  perfume.  All  right? So  you  have  this,  and  it  diffuses,  right? It  spreads. You  think  about  something  that's  hot. Alright?  So  you  have  a  hot  pan. Heat's  going  to  diffuse  from that  region  of  hot  to  cold. The  whole  math  of foyer  that  you  learned  was  actually  that. Right? The  whole  purpose  was  about  heat  diffusion, and  that.  So  that's  the  mass. You  know,  so  you  have  the  mass  diffusion, you  have  that,  and  then  also  with  pressure. You  take  a  balloon.  It's  at high  pressure,  you  poke  a  hole. You  know,  you're  gonna  have  things  move  from region  of  high  pressure  to  low  pressure. That's  fluid  mechanics,  right? That's  in  short,  what the  second  law  is  all  about,  right? Yeah. So  these  sort  of familiar  statements  here  again. I'm  not  going  to  read  them  through,  but  yeah, there's  a  lot  of  sort  of  interesting ways  you  can  think  about  applying  that thinking  then  into  real,  real  systems. Um  Yeah,  and  they  have  this  other  one. This  is  sort  of  like  in  the  book. Again,  I  don't  want  to,  like,  really, you  know,  you  know,  belabor  the  point, but  they  have  some  like  graphical representations  about, you  know,  when  and  where  these statements  could  be  violated. So  they're  thinking  about  heat  engines, powering  refrigerators. And  then ultimately  having  these  statements  here, where  you  end  up  having  a  violation  with  it. Yeah,  I'm  not  super  keen  on, like  assessing  things  like  this, but  I  do  think, especially  with  these  kinds of  thoughts,  experiments. I  prefer  this  to  what's  drawn  in  the  book. So  these  kind  of  thought  experiments, it's  going  to  really  help  you  to  understand, you  know,  later  on, especially  when  with  the  entropy  why, why  we  bother  we  bother  with  it,  right? Good.  Another  reason  why  Well, You  know,  while  all  this  was  going  on,  right? You  had  the  industrial  evolution, which  was  happening, and  a  lot  of  people,  you  know, were  very  interested  in trying  to  make  machines  that could  create  more  energy than  they  put  in,  right? So  we  call  these  devices  perpetual mobily,  perpetual  motion  devices. So  those  systems  where  you get  more  energy  out  than  you  put  in, we  call  these  perpetual  motion  machines  of the  first  kind  because  they  violate the  first  law  of  thermodynamics,  right? Any  device  that  violates  the  second  law, we  call  it  a  perpetual  emotion  machine of  the  second  kind. There  was  I  think last  year  when  I  taught  this,  I  shared I  think  popular  science  magazine  had,  like, a  whole  issue  devoted to  the  different  ways  that people  try  to  violate. Some  of  them  are  like,  pretty  clever. You  know,  at  first, you  know,  at  first  glance, it's  not  necessarily  obvious. But  at  the  end  of  it,  when  you  really  apply first  and  second  law  analysis to  the  systems,  you  see  that,  you  know, they  don't  gain  more  energy or  they  don't  have spontaneous  motion  of  heat or  whatever  in  the  wrong  direction. And  there's  been  lots  of  challenges. I  mean,  if  you  really  want  to read  about  this,  there  was, you  know,  again,  with  Maxwell, some  very  smart  people tried  to  come  up  with  systems  like Maxwell  Demons  and  stuff to  try  to  violate  it. But  it's  still  standing  after  all of  this  time,  right? So  as  I  said, you  have  these  kind  of,  you  know, different  examples  that  come in,  you  know,  with  it  there. So,  just  read  this,  educate  yourself, know  a  bit  about  it  because,  you  know, you  don't  want  to,  like, a  snake  oil  salesman, as  we  would  say, coming  in  and  kind  of  say,  Oh, you  know,  we  have  this  beautiful  thing, and  all  of  that, you  get  more  than  you  put  in,  in  general, if  things  sound  too  good  to  be  true, They  are  too  good  to  be  true,  right? And  that's  what  the  history  of perpetual  motion  talks  about. Alright? Good.  Now,  I've  done  my  job  with  this. Alright.  Coming  back  to  this  part. So  we've  done  no  introduction on  the  second  law. Talk  about  petrol  motion. I  want  to  say  a  few  words  here about  reversibility. We  had  brought  this  up  already  before, but  this  is  an  important  part  of  second  law. So  again,  here  I'm  showing  you the  same  slide  we  had  before  with this  piston  and  and  compression. So  in  the  first  case  here, we  are  compressing  this  piston  head, you  know,  very,  let's  say,  slowly. So  we  like  push  a  little  bit, let  it  go  to  equilibrium, push  a  little  bit  more, let  it  go  to  equilibrium, push  a  bit  more,  let  it  go  to  equilibrium. And  then  in  the  other  case, you  push  really,  really  fast. So  basically,  you  push  very  fast, and  maybe  you  induce  motion. You  start  to  basically  cause  the  fluid within  there  to  move. What  happens  if  I  start  to  take a  fluid  inside  of a  container  and  I  let  it  move? What  eventually  happens?  It  heats  up. So  I  have  it  moving,  and  then  over  time, it  starts  to  slow  down,  right? There's  friction  and  stuff,  but  the  point  is that  it  starts  to  heat  up,  right? There's  a  nice  simulator  here. You  can  run  this  and  look  at  it. This  kind  of  takes  and  does a  compression  process, on  the  left,  reversible  and on  the  right,  irreversible. And  the  point  is  that  the  final  states are  not  the  same. So  for  the  irreversible  antiatic  process, you  see  the  temperature  here  is,  you  know, more  than  double  in  a  Kalvin  scale, so  on  absolute  scale, the  case  of  when  it  was  reversible. Yes,  Jason.  11. You  want  to  play  it  again?  No,  so we  started  300  in  both  cases. Yeah,  let  me  start  at  the  beginning. Stand,  this  go  off. So  300,  300  in  the  same  initial  volume, and  then  we  press  play  there, you  see  the  work  that's  done  to  do  that, and  then  the  corresponding  temperatures. There,  you  see  the  work  transfer  in the  case  it's  irreversible  is  much  higher. Kind  of  interesting.  Think  about  why  that  is. And  the  amount  of  compression  in  terms  of volume  displacement  is different  between  them. But  the  thing  is  that  once  you  create the  heat,  You  know, once  you  generate  the  heat  through  that, you  can  kind  of  think,  that's  Gee, that's  probably  gonna  be pretty  hard  to  get  back,  right? So  it's  irreversible.  In  the  back  there. I  mean,  in  short,  there is  nothing  in  life  that's  reversible. Is  your  childhood,  you  know, I  suppose,  like,  bones  might get  repaired,  you  know,  in  a  sense. So  there's  like  a  degree  of  reversibility, but  it's  never,  you  know,  fully. All  right?  But  it's  important  when  we do  thermo  analysis  to  think  about  perfection. So  it's  instructive  to  think about  what  is,  you  know, reversible  in  the  reversible  cases, because  from  that, that's  gonna  set  that  use bolt  you  know,  benchmark,  right? That's  gonna  set  perfection. And  we're  all  trying  to catch  up  to  that,  right? But  it's  a  fair  point.  It's  a  fair  point. The  absolute,  basically  the  absolute. But,  the  way  you  could think  about  it  here  is  that  it's a  system  during  which the  transformations  are  like, always  at  equilibrium. So  if  you  do  things  slow  enough  there, you're  kind  of  like  at  equilibrium, and  there  are  some  systems that  are  like  that. You  can't  think  of  some  experiments  where you  undergo  like  a  spring,  right? You  take  a  spring,  compress it  pretty  slowly,  then  let  it  go, and  it'll  come  back  to  that  that same  position,  you  know, there  you  can  think  about  like  spinning, you  know,  energy  storage  systems like  pumped  hydro  or  something  like  that. That's  pretty  you  know, those  are  pretty  efficient  systems. You  know,  once  you  pump  up, you  pretty  much  get  most  of it  coming  back  down  from  it,  right? Other  questions. Cool.  All  right. Yeah,  but  as  I  mentioned,  you  know, from  the  point  of  Alex  there, we're  going  to  talk  about second  law  efficiency  with  this. So  pretty  much  what  sets  the  highest  level. And  then  we  can  rank  against  that,  right? Yeah,  and  as  I  said  before, you  have  the  friction,  you  have  the  friction. So  when  we  move  or compress  the  pistem,  if  we  get, like  currents  flowing  of  the  fluid  that's ultimately  going  to dissipate  or  generate  heat, and  it's  going  to  be  dissipated anywhere  where  you have  temperature  differences. So  if  you  have, something  at  a  high  temperature  and a  low  temperature  there in  your  tran  to  transfer  heat, that's  going  to  be  an  irreversibility. So  in  heat  transfer,  heat exchanger  design,  you  know, we  go  to  great  deals  to  try  to  make sure  that  these  interfaces are  very  conductive,  right? So  what  does  that  mean? No  fouling,  right?  So  we don't  want  to  have  fing  on  the  interfaces. You're  going  to  have temperature  drops  that  occur  across  it. And  to  give  you  a  sense  of  how important  that  such  irreversibilities  are. Think  about  power  plants, condensers,  you  get  a  little  fouling  layers of  like  a  millimeter  there. You  lose  about  1.5% of  your  power  plant  efficiency. And  we  have  to  build,  you  know, we  have  to  burn,  you  know, millions  and  millions  of  tons  of coal  and  fuel then  to  make  up  for  these  little, you  know,  irreversible  losses. So  they're  pretty  pretty  significant,  right? Cool.  Good. You're  all  doing  great. So  if  we  come  now  to  the  final  part  here, which  is  then  on  the  C  arn. So  we  did  the  first  part  of  Carno,  right? So  we  had  some  energy  source or  reservoir  at  TH. We  transferred  the  heat  in. We  did  the  expansion. 2-3.  All  right. So  again,  this  is  like  a  thought  process. We  take  this  piston  off of  the  thermal  reservoir  at  high  temperature. We  put  it  on  an  insulating  one. We  let  this  thing  undergo adiabatic  expansion,  right,  to  state  three. We  can  then  go  from  state three  to  state  four, where  we  transfer  this  thing  onto the  heat  sink. So  what  towards, I  believe,  Jason's  point  there. So  we  transfer  this  then  on to  the  low  temperature. Reservoir,  we  transfer  heat  out. And  then  in  that  final  process of  returning  back  to  the  initial  state, we  do  the  adiabatic  compression. So  basically  do  isothermal  compression, and  then  adiabatic  compression  there. And  the  first  part  here is  what  we  studied,  right? But  you  need  to  do  all  this  extra  parts, especially  this  heat  transfer  out  if  you want  to  return  back  to the  initial  state,  right? Yes.  How  does  this  look  like that  on  a  PV  diagram, so  we  can  plot  this  carno  cycle  here? So  you  see,  again,  that  we  started off  with  the  state  one  there. We  do  the  isothermal  expansion, adiobatic  expansion, isothermal  compression, adiobatic  compression,  right? Which  time  do  we  have  with  this? Alright,  at  the  risk  of overloading  you  onto  poles  today. I  think  I'm  going  to  do it  cause  I  think  it's  important. And  I  think  I'm  putting  you  all  to  sleep. So  let's  do  this  last  one  here. So  I'm  gonna  give  you  now  this  PV  diagram. You've  done  the  first  part. You  did  that  amazingly  with  that. What  I  want  you  to  look  at now  is  say  you  want  to  be  stingy. A,  you  want  to  decrease  QL. You  want  to  minimize  this  last  part  that  I said  here  with  the  reservoir. So  instead  of  compressing  isothermally, you  do  that  atiobatically. And  the  question  is,  if you  do  that,  what  will  happen? Which  state  will  you  end  up  at  and  what  will happen  to  the  net  work  out  of  it. I'm  going  to  circulate  around  the  room. I  say  5  minutes,  but  the  reality  is  probably that  we'll  have  that  and then  a  short  amount  of  time  for  discussion, and  we  can  continue  with  the  next  time. Are  there  any  questions  about  this? Deep  stuff  important.  Yes,  Max,  right? Say  that  one  more  time  to  me.  Yes. Because  this  is  an  idealization. Obviously, you  need  a  slight  Delta  T  to  do  that, but  that  is  a  fair  point. This  is  one  of the  idealizations  that,  you  know, basically  you  transfer  heat  perfectly  from the  reservoir  into  your  container. But  that's  great. Other  questions.  Okay,  if  not, I'm  launching  this  now. So  talk  with  your  group  in  there, and  I'll  circulate  around the  room  with  this,  okay? Thank  you  for  your  participation. All  right. You  guys  for  this? Yeah.  So  what  do you  thoughts  for  the  first  place? Yeah. Yeah.  And  where  do  you  think  you  lend  up  the? G.  I.  Yeah. Yeah,  let's  talk  Friday. Here  on  Friday.  Let's  talk  Friday  Friday. In one  to  two, three  to  four  and  three  and  14. As.  Yes,  great. Good?  Yeah.  Okay.  Okay. Oh,  sorry.  Questions  to  this. But  for  the  network,  if  you  absolute  value Q  minus  the  hybris  low, is  that  equal  to  the  efficiency  of  one minus  that  last  part  that  you  said  there, that's  what  we  call  car  efficiency. So  we're  going  to  get  into  that. I  haven't  done  it, but  it's  the  next  step  after this  where  we  do  that. In  terms  of  the  net  work  out. So  the  first  part  of  it,  I  mean, that  is  equal  to  the  net  heat. Yeah. But  I  think  what  you're doing  is,  which  is  good. You're  combining  those  thinking, but  ultimately  that's  going to  give  us  the  car. So  you're  one  steph  of  us. Okay.  Good?  Yeah.  Yeah.  You  submit  or  no? No,  I  didn't  submit.  Okay.  Great. You're  a  happy  place  there. Okay.  And  here  statics  is  still  killing  us. Good. Is  it  okay? Is  it  okay?  Question. Okay,  great.  I'm  going  to  present. Okay,  so  for  the  first  part  here, so  we  have  the  PV  diagram. The  question  was,  which  state will  we  end  up  with?  Oh,  hold  on. Let  me  make  sure  I  get  it  right.  So  So we're  going  to  do state  three  to  four  adiabatically, and  then  what  state  will  we  I  lost  it. There  it  is.  No. Does  that  look  good? Okay.  And  so  what  will  we  end  up  with? So  I  see  kind  of  a  distribution of  12  and  three. So  anyone  who  selected  one, do  they  care  to  share  their  thinking? Two?  Sure. Iba  So  I  two, so  if  we  did  in  adiabatic  compression, we  would  return  to  two since  preceding  step was  aiobat  expansion. Another  group.  For  three? Or  ghast  or  that's just  a  hard  act  to  follow. Or  you  all  agree  with  that? See?  Does  anyone  disagree  with  that? Please.  Yes.  I  don't  really last  part  I  say  it  again. B. Yes,  please.  Yes. Give  you So  basically, the  way  I  interpret  that  is  you  have an  expectation  that  it  won't be  the  same  as  a  two  to  three, but  you  expect  a  steeper  slope  similar, for  example,  to  the  84  to  one. One  to  three.  Three  to  one. Exactly.  Any  other  contributions  on  that? I'm  going  to  start  rewarding,  like, the  most,  you  know, out  there  with  it. So  I  think  that  I  like  all  the  thinking  here. I  think  with  the  three  to  one,  this  is  what  I thought  intuitively  when  I first  thought  of  this. I  thought,  Okay,  I'm there.  I'm  going  to  compress. I  would  take  basically  the  curve  of 41,  put  it  there,  and  for  me, I  thought  I'd  end  up  at  state  one,  there. We  have  the  statement  of  that,  you  know, going  from  the  0.3, that  these  aren't  going  to  be  the  same,  so maybe  we're  ending  up  at  the  same  state. I  have  to  say  that  for  the answer  on  the  statement  two, I  probably  couldn't  say  it better  myself  with  it,  right? So  the  point  is  that  if  you  do  have an  adiabatic  process  where you  are  expanding,  right? And  in  this  case,  let's  say  it's all  sort  of  reversible  in  what  we're  doing. If  you  then  do the  same  reversible  process  back, you're  basically  going  to  end  up at  state  two,  right? So  that  was  very  nice  name  again,  remind  me. ZC.  Alright,  Zc,  Zach  with  a  CK  or  a  CH. CK.  Z  with  a  right. Cool.  So,  and  then  the  thing  is  here. So  what  happened  to  the  net  output. So  we  have  increase,  we  have no  change  and  decrease. And  I  think  that's  important.  I  think  we  have a  really  a  good  consensus around  the  decrease. And  so  what  I  want  to  say  is that  here  is  one  or  one  of the  groups  want  to  share then  why  they  felt  it  would  decrease. Argumentation  for  why.  Jason. If  you're  first,  you  go. I  the  way that All  right. So  I  want  to  say  with  the  polygon, a  mathematical  statement.  Another  answer. Yes,  please. Yeah. Another  one.  Building  on  that. Because  I  mean,  the  area  is  less  or the  area  is  like  zero. And  this  area  that  we  talk  about, is  it  below  the  curve  or  within these curves?'s within, right? So  when  we  talk  about  the  cycles, we're  interested  then  in  right, for  the  work  here, we're  going  to  go  with the  area  within  it,  okay? And  with  that  very  nice  answer  out  of  Sam, I'm  gonna  close  it  here  and  we'll  pick up  Ms  second  law next  time.  Thank  you  all  for  sharing.
