Alright. So  today,  we're  going  to  talk  about some  reversible  irreversible  processes, perpetual  motion,  the  famous  car  noo  cycle, and  some  carno  principles. I  don't  know  if  we're  going  to get  to  basically  step  four, but  this  is  what  we're  talking  about  today. Today  closes,  right? Module  one  is  closed. So  I  am  done  with  control  volume  analysis. The  burden  is  now  on  you,  do  your  homeworks, do  the  MC  exams. If  you  want  to  ask  me,  You  want  Excellent, someone  to  ask  me,  you  know, I  want  to  get  a  great  grade. You  S  Bolt  wanted  to  be  very  fast,  right? 958  is  not  easy  for  100,  right? But  he  worked  his  butt  off,  and he  did  it,  and  he  didn't  do  the  average. So  if  you  really  want  to  be  good  with  this, go  beyond,  you know,  what  I  started  giving  you, the  book  has  an  excellent  num, you  know,  excellent  problems, a  ton  of  them  to  practice  on  a  cross  with  it. I  gave  the  mock  exams.  I  gave you  a  flavor  of  my  style. Alright? So  you  can  see sort  of  the  style  that  comes  with  it, but  I  recommend  discussion  sections. I  have  extra  office  hours. If  you  look  in  the  B  courses  on the  mid  term  one  page  there, the  mock  exams  are  also  there, so  repetition,  you  know,  practice,  right? Just  like  running.  Alright?  Cool. So  before  we  get  into  that, I  want  to  discuss  this. So  again,  I'm  assuming  you've  done,  you  know, your  readings  and  of  course, watched  any  of  the  sort of  the  pre  work  and  all  of  it. If  you  haven't,  this  is  going  to  be a  very  interesting  exercise  for  you. So  Kelvin,  so  we  talked  about  Calvin  as  like our  temperature  scale.  It  was  also  a  person. And  he  worked  on what  we  call  the  Second  Law,  right? Second  Law  of  Thermodynamics. And  as  part  of  this, so  he  has  this,  you  know,  statement  here. And  all  these  statements  are  on the  fact  that  we  want  to  take,  right? We  want  to  take  heat, put  it  in,  and maximize  the  work  that  we  get  out,  right? So  we  want  to  basically  put  heat  in  and maximize  the  work  that  comes  out. Saudi  Caro  was  another  person  who  worked  on this  Saudi's  old  man  was  in  Napoleon, basically  worked  with  Napoleon. I  don't  know  how  it  ended  for  him. I  think  none  of  it  ended  very good  based  on  the  movie  I  saw  recently. But  essentially,  you  know, Saudi  was  really  pissed  off because  the  English  sort  of  had sort  of  better  engines  than  him. And  he  thought,  that's  ridiculous. You  know,  the  French  and, you  know,  we  know  our  math  and  all  of  this. We  should  be  able  to  make  better  engines  and better  systems  than  the  guys across  the  channel  there. And  so  he  devoted  his  life  to, like,  look  into  these,  you  know,  details. How  can  I  put  in  some  amount  of,  you  know, heat  and  Max  sort  of  the  work, useful  work  that  I  get  out  of  it. And  so  he  sort  of  did  it  first. As  I  understand  on  the  record. And  then  after  that, people  got  kind  of  like,  Okay, I  need  to  state  this  thing  almost in  sort  of  philosophical  terms, get  it  exactly  right  there. And  so, Calvin's  one  of  the  people  that  wrote  it. I'm  giving  you  this  statement, right,  read  this  statement. I'm  drawing  you  this  system. Right?  So  we  have  here  a let's  say  a  temperature  reservoir, basically  a  body  that's  at some  temperature  that  doesn't  change. You're  transferring  heat  then into  this  piston,  right? That  you  know,  contains  an  ideal  gas. And  it  undergoes  an  isothermal  expansion. So  you  transferred  the  heat,  and  you have  the  isothermal  expansion. And  what  I'm  going  to  do  right  now because  this  is  also  going  to  be visible  on  the  pole  is  I'm  going  to  open  up the  pole  for  you  all. And  I  want  you  to  discuss  this,  right? This  is  it  an  important  turning  point. So  a  transformation  whose  only  final  result is  to  transform  into work  heat  extracted  from  a  source, which  is  that  the  same  temperature throughout  is  impossible. All  right.  So  I'm  going  to  draw  something. So  we  started  with  Alright. We  started  with,  let's  say, this  state  as  state  one. Alright.  Let  be  dramatic  about  it. This  is  our  state  two. We  had  our  Uh  reservoir, which  is  here  and  Q  coming  in? Same  reservoir  here  with  the  Q  coming  in? We  have  the  PDV  work, which  is  happening,  right? And  so  my  question  to  you  here  is,  yes, we  took  heat, and  we  fully  converted  it  into  work. And  my  question  is, when  you  look  at  that  board, is  the  only  final  result here  between  these  two  pictures, the  fact  that  I  took  Q, and  I  made  it  into  W.  Or do  you  see  differences between  the  two  pictures? The  gas  expanded.  So  what  changed? Okay,  so  we're  saying  pressure  went  down. What's  another  thing  that  we  see  with  this? Sure.  Volume  Volume. The  volume  is  larger. Right? So  if  you  read  that  statement  then,  here. So  here  we  say  it's  a  contradiction. But  based  on  what  I've just  told  you  about  the  fact  that the  volume  between  them  is  different, do  you  still  think  it's  a  contradiction? Only  final  result. Alright?  It's  not  a  contradiction,  right? Because  these  are  not  the  same  anymore. You  did  transfer  he  into  work, but  you  also  changed the  volume  that  you  have  there,  right? Clear?  Yeah,  it's  deep. It  gets  worse?  Entropy's  coming,  right? So,  but  this  helps  you  to  understand. Alright?  The  point  is  that  if you  think  about  a  system,  right? So  who  the  hell  cares  about  this? This  mental  exercise?  Well,  if you  want  to  make  an  engine,  right? I  agree.  If  you  had  an  engine, where  all  you  did  was  expanded  the  piston, you  could  put  the  heat  in, and  you  could  get  work  out. But  if  you  want  to  do  a  cycle, and  you  want  to  bring  this  back  to  the  start, you  need  to  do  something. What  do  you  got  to  do  there? What  do  you  know  now that  we've  got  to  this  great  state, what  do  you  think  you  need  to do  to  get  back  to  here? Contract. So  how  do  we  do  that  without paying  a  huge  penalty? Ser.  Cool  it  down.  Great. Cool  it  down,  right? And  then  with  this,  we're  going  to get  into,  you  know,  that's  going  to  lead  us, you  know,  a  great  segue into  second  law  and  what's  coming. You  know,  you're  gonna  put  some  heat  in. Alright,  then  go  to  do  some  work, but  then  you  got  to  take  some  heat  out. Alright,  and  then  contract to  get  back  where  you  started. And  the  fact  that,  you know,  you  put  some  heat  in, you  didn't  just  do  work,  you changed  something  else  in  it,  right? And  this  property  that's coming  soon  entropy,  you  know, is  a  mathematical  thing is  going  to  help  us  to rationalize  this  change that  we've  done,  okay? So,  in  short,  that's  the  that's  it. Alright.  Any  questions? Beautiful.  You're  all  doing  great, even  after  statics,  right? Yeah,  so  we  have,  you  know, this  is  as  the  statement  of  Lord  Calvin. Other  statements  would  be  this. I'm  not  going  to  read  it,  you  know, out  loud,  but  you're  not  going  to be  able  to  operate  this with  a  single  reservoir. So  as  the  point  that  was raised  here,  you  know, you're  going  to  have  to  then  put  this probably  into  contact  with something  that  has  a  lower  temperature to  transfer  heat  out  of  it, to  ultimately  be  able  to  do a  cycle  do  a  cycle  like  that,  right? Super.  And  then,  of  course, everyone  else  thought  they  could have  a  go  at  it  Clausius  from, you  know,  they're  saying  this  statement. Again,  I'm  not  going  to read  it  because  it  makes my  brain  hurt  to  Yeah, I  mean,  but  this  is  an  important part  of  the  second  law. I  mean,  first  law  is like  conservation  of  energy,  right? We  don't  deal  with  creating  energy. We  talk  about  transformations. The  second  law  is  like things  that  are  at  high  concentration. Things  tend  to  move  from  regions  of high  concentration  to  low,  right? You  think  about  perfume.  Alright,  so you  have  this,  and  it  diffuses,  right? It  spreads. You  think  about  something  that's  hot. Right?  So  you  have  a  hot  pan.  Heat's  going  to diffuse  from  that  region  of  hot  to  cold. The  whole  math  of  foyer  that  you learned  was  actually  that,  right? The  whole  purpose  was  about  heat  diffusion, and  that.  So  that's  the  mass. You  know,  so  you  have  the  mass  difusion, you  have  that,  and  then  also  with  pressure. You  take  a  balloon.  It's  at high  pressure,  you  poke  a  hole. You  know,  you're  gonna  have  things  move  from region  of  high  pressure  to  low  pressure. That's  fluid  mechanics,  right? That's  in  short,  what the  second  law  is  all  about,  right? Yeah. So  these  sort  of familiar  statements  here  again. I'm  not  going  to  read  them  through,  but  yeah, there's  a  lot  of  sort  of  interesting ways  you  can  think  about  applying  that thinking  then  into  real,  real  systems. Um  Yeah, and  they  have  this  other  one. This  is  sort  of  like  in  the  book. Again,  I  don't  want  to,  like,  really, you  know,  you  know,  belabor  the  point, but  they  have  some  like  graphical representations  about, you  know,  when  and  where  these statements  could  be  violated. So  they're  thinking  about  heat  engines, powering  refrigerators. And  then  ultimately  having  these  statements here  where  you  end  up having  a  violation  with  it. Yeah,  I'm  not  super  keen  on  like assessing  things  like  this,  but  I  do  think, especially  with  these  kinds of  thoughts,  experiments. I  prefer  this  to  what's  drawn  in  the  book. So  these  kind  of  thought  experiments, it's  going  to  really  help  you  to  understand, you  know,  later  on, especially  with  the  entropy,  why, why  we  bother  we  bother  with  it,  right? Good. Another  reason  why  Well, You  know,  while  all  this  was  going  on,  right? You  had  the  industrial  evolution, which  was  happening, and  a  lot  of  people,  you  know, were  very  interested  in trying  to  make  machines  that could  create  more  energy than  they  put  in,  right? So  we  call  these  devices  perpetual mobily,  perpetual  motion  devices. So  those  systems  where  you get  more  energy  out  than  you  put  in, we  call  these  perpetual motion  machines  of  the  first  kind, because  they  violate  the  first  law of  thermodynamics,  right? Any  device  that  violates  the  second  law, we  call  it  a  perpetual  motion  machine of  the  second  kind. There  was  I  think last  year  when  I  taught  this,  I  shared I  think  popular  science  magazine  had  like a  whole  issue  devoted to  the  different  ways  that people  tried  to  violate. Some  of  them  are  like,  pretty  clever. You  know,  at  first  you  know,  at  first  glance, it's  not  necessarily  obvious. But  at  the  end  of  it,  when  you  really  apply first  and  second  law  analysis to  the  systems,  you  see  that,  you  know, they  don't  gain  more  energy or  they  don't  have spontaneous  motion  of  heat  or whatever  in  the  wrong  direction. And  there's  been  lots  of  challenges. I  mean,  if  you  really  want  to read  about  this,  there  was, you  know,  again,  with  Maxwell, some  very  smart  people tried  to  come  up  with  systems  like Maxwell  Demons  and  stuff to  try  to  violate  it. But  it's  still  standing  after  all of  this  time,  right? So  as  I  said, you  have  these  kind  of,  you  know, different  examples  that  come in,  you  know,  with  it  there. So,  just  read  this,  educate yourself,  know  a  bit  about  it, because,  you  know,  you  don't  want,  like a  snake  oil  salesman, as  we  would  say, coming  in  and  kind  of  Oh,  and, you  know,  we  have  this  beautiful  thing, and  all  of  that, and  you  get  more  than  you  put  in,  in  general, if  things  sound  too  good  to  be  true, They  are  too  good  to  be  true,  right? And  that's  what  the  history of  perpetual  motion  talks about.  All  right?  Good. Now,  I've  done  my  job  with  this. Alright.  Coming  back  to  this  part. So  we've  done  no  introduction on  the  second  law, talk  about  petrol  motion. I  want  to  say  a  few  words  here about  reversibility. We  had  brought  this  up  already  before, but  this  is  an  important  part  of  second  law. So  again,  here  I'm  showing  you the  same  slide  we  had  before  with this  piston  and  and  compression. So  in  the  first  case  here, we  are  compressing  this  piston  head, you  know,  very,  let's  say,  slowly. So  we  like  push  a  little bit,  let  it  go  to  equilibrium, push  a  little  bit  more, let  it  go  to  equilibrium, push  a  bit  more,  let  it  go  to  equilibrium. And  then  in  the  other  case, you  push  really,  really  fast. So  basically,  you  push  very  fast, and  maybe  you  induce  motion. You  start  to  basically  cause  the  fluid within  there  to  move. What  happens  if  I  start to  take  a  fluid  inside  of a  container  and  I  let  it  move? What  eventually  happens? Heats  up. So  I  have  it  moving,  and  then  over  time, it  starts  to  slow  down,  right? There's  friction  and  stuff,  but  the  point  is that  it  starts  to  heat  up,  right? There's  a  nice  simulator  here. You  can  run  this  and  look  at  it. This  kind  of  takes  and  does a  compression  process, on  the  left,  reversible  and on  the  right,  irreversible. And  the  point  is  that  the  final  states are  not  the  same. So  for  the  irreversible  antiatic  process, you  see  the  temperature  here  is,  you  know, more  than  double  in  a  Kelvin  scale, an  absolute  scale,  the  case  of when  it  was  reversible. Yes,  Jason. Rule  11.  You  want  to  play  it  again? No,  so  we  started  300  in  both  cases. Yeah,  let  me  start  at  the  beginning. Stand.  Why  this  go  off. So  300,  300  in  the  same  initial  volume, and  then  we  press  play  there, you  see  the  work  that's  done  to  do  that, and  then  the  corresponding  temperatures. There,  you  see  the  work  transfer  in the  case  it's  irreversible  is  much  higher. Kind  of  interesting.  Think  about  why  that  is. And  the  amount  of  compression  in  terms  of volume  displacement  is different  between  them. But  the  thing  is  that  once  you create  the  heat,  i. You  know,  once  you generate  the  heat  through  that, you  can  kind  of  think,  that's  Gee, that's  probably  gonna  be pretty  hard  to  get  back,  right? So  it's  irreversible.  In  the  back  there. I  mean,  in  short,  there is  nothing  in  life  that's  reversible. Is  your  childhood,  you  know, I  suppose,  like,  bones  might get  repaired,  you  know,  in  a  sense. So  there's  like  a  degree  of  reversibility, but  it's  never,  you  know,  fully. All  right?  But  it's  important  when  we do  thermoalysis  to  think  about  perfection. So  it's  instructive  to  think about  what  is,  you  know, reversible  in  the  reversible  cases, because  from  that, that's  gonna  set  that  use bolt,  you  know,  benchmark,  right? That's  gonna  set  perfection. And  we're  all  trying  to catch  up  to  that,  right? But  it's  a  fair  point.  It's  a  fair  point. The  agency  of  the absolute,  basically  the  absolute. But,  the  way  you  could think  about  it  here  is  that  it's a  system  during  which the  transformations  are  like, always  at  equilibrium. So  if  you  do  things  slow  enough  there, you're  kind  of  like  at  equilibrium, and  there  are  some  systems that  are  like  that. You  can't  think  of  some  experiments  where you  undergo  like  a  spring,  right? You  take  a  spring,  compress it  pretty  slowly,  then  let  it  go, and  it'll  come  back  to  that  that same  position  you  know, there  you  can  think  about  like  spinning, you  know,  energy  storage  systems like  pumped  hydro  or  something  like  that. That's  pretty  you  know, those  are  pretty  efficient  systems. You  know,  once  you  pump  up, you  pretty  much  get  most  of it  coming  back  down  from  it,  right? Other  questions. Cool.  Alright. Yeah,  but  as  I  mentioned, you  know,  from  the  point  of, Alex  there,  we're  going  to  talk  about second  law  efficiency  with  this. So  pretty  much  what  sets  the  highest  level. And  then  we  can  rank  against  that,  right? Yeah,  and  as  I  said  before,  you  have these  friction,  you  have  the  friction. So  when  we  move  or compress  the  pistem,  if  we  get, like  currents  flowing  of  the  fluid  that's ultimately  going  to dissipate  or  generate  heat, and  it's  going  to  be  dissipated anywhere  where  you have  temperature  differences. So  if  you  have,  you  know, something  at  a  high  temperature  and a  low  temperature  there and  you're  trying  to  transfer  heat, that's  going  to  be  an  irreversibility. So  in  heat  transfer,  heat exchanger  design,  you  know, we  go  to  great  deals  to  try  to  make sure  that  these  interfaces are  very  conductive,  right? So  what  does  that  mean? No  fouling,  right?  So  we don't  want  to  have  fouling  on  the  interfaces. You're  going  to  have temperature  drops  that  occur  across  it. And  to  give  you  a  sense  of  how important  that  such  irreversibilities  are. Think  about  power  plants,  condensers, you  get  a  little  fouling  layers of  like  a  millimeter  there. You  lose  about  1.5% of  your  power  plant  efficiency. And  we  have  to  build,  you  know, we  have  to  burn,  you  know, millions  and  millions  of  tons  of coal  and  fuel  then to  make  up  for  these  little, you  know,  irreversible  losses. So  they're  pretty  significant,  right? Cool.  Good.  You're  all  doing  great. So,  if  we  come  now  to  the  final  part  here, which  is  that  on  the  Carno. So  we  did  the  first  part  of  Carno,  right? So  we  had  some  energy  source or  reservoir  at  TH. We  transferred  the  heat  in. We  did  the  expansion. 2-3.  All  right. So,  again,  this  is  like  a  thought  process. We  take  this  piston  off of  the  thermal  reservoir  at  high  temperature. We  put  it  on  an  insulating  one. We  let  this  thing  undergo adiabatic  expansion,  right  to  state  three. We  can  then  go  from  state three  to  state  four, where  we  transfer  this  thing  onto the  heat  sink. So  what  towards, I  believe,  Jason's  point  there. So  we  transfer  this  then  on to  the  low  temperature. Reservoir,  we  transfer  heat  out. And  then  in  that  final  process of  returning  back  to  the  initial  state, we  do  the  adioba  compression. So  basically,  do  is  the  thermal  compression and  then  adiabatic  compression  there. And  the  first  part  here is  what  we  studied,  right? But  you  need  to  do  all  the  extra  parts, especially  this  heat  transfer  out  if  you want  to  return  back  to the  initial  state,  right? Yes. How  does  this  look  like  that  on  a  PV  diagram, so  we  can  plot  this  carno  cycle  here? So  you  see,  again,  that  we  started off  with  the  state  one  there. We  do  the  isothermal  expansion, adiobatic  expansion, isothermal  compression, adiobatic  compression,  right? Which  time  do  we  have  with  this? Alright,  at  the  risk  of overloading  you  onto  poles  today. I  think  I'm  going  to  do it  cause  I  think  it's  important. And  I  think  I'm  putting  you  all  to  sleep. So  let's  do  this  last  one  here. So  I'm  gonna  give  you  now  this  PV  diagram. You've  done  the  first  part,  you  did  that amazingly  with  that. What  I  want  you  to  look  at now  is  say  you  want  to  be  stingy. A,  you  want  to  decrease  QL. You  want  to  minimize  this  last  part  that  I said  here  with  the  reservoir. So  instead  of  compressing  isothermally, you  do  that  atiobatically. And  the  question  is,  if you  do  that,  what  will  happen? Which  state  will  you  end  up  at  and  what  will happen  to  the  network  out  of  it? I'm  going  to  circulate  around  the  room. I  say  5  minutes,  but  the  reality  is  probably that  we'll  have  that  and then  a  short  amount  of  time  for  discussion, and  we  can  continue  with  the  next  time. Are  there  any  questions  about  this? Deep  stuff  important.  Yes.  Max,  right? Say  that  one  more  time  to  me.  Yes. Because  this  is  an  idealization. Obviously, you  need  a  slight  Delta  T  to  do  that, but  that  is  a  fair  point. This  is  one  of the  idealizations  that,  you  know, basically  you  transfer  heat perfectly  from  the  reservoir into  your  container. But  that's  great.  Other  questions. Okay,  if  not,  I'm  launching  this  now. So  talk  with  your  group  in  there  and  I'll circulate  around  the  room  with  this,  okay? Thank  you  for  your  participation.
