Hello. All  right.  I'm  sorry. That's  awesome.  Today,  we'll do  we'll  be  Charlie  Chaplin  today, black  and  black  and  white, although  not  a  silent  film. So  A So  I  don't  understand. Okay.  So  we're  talking  about  the  second  law. Yes,  please.  Module  one  is  over. No.  This  is  the  second  module,  okay? This  is  the  second  act  of  our  play,  okay? Or  in  our  Tour  de  France  analysis,  right? Now  we're  entering  the  Pyrenees. We  climb  a  bit,  all  right? Yeah,  so  after  today, you're  going  to  be  able  to  complete  these you  should  be  able  to  do  the  following,  okay? Okay,  so  the  first  thing  we're  going  to  start with  is  the  following  question,  okay? Hopefully,  you've  all  done your  pre  work  and  previewing. I  know  that  you've  read  it  all  and  are  on  it, so  you're  going  to  ace  it,  okay? So  a  statement,  right? Lord  Kelvin  said  a  transformation whose  only  final  result  is  to transform  into  work  heat extracted  from  a  source, which  is  at  the  same  temperature throughout  is  impossible,  okay? I'm  drawing  a  diagram  of this  because  I  like  pictures,  okay? So  here  I  have  a  heat  reservoir at  temperature  T, Um,  heat  is  being  transferred  from this  reservoir  into  a  piston.  Hold  on. It's  not  active  yet  because  I'm  slow. I  have  technical  problems  today. In  this  isothermal,  expanding  ideal  gas, and  some  work  is  being  transferred  out, okay?  So,  give  me  a  second. Let  me  activate  the  pole because  my  phone  is  also  misbehaving. It  doesn't  make  me  want  to  go  on  to  Module two,  either  Let's  see. Go  to  activities,  blah, blah,  blah.  Fall  2025. There's  our  polls  six  B and  Calvin's  statement. Okay,  so  that's  active  there. Um,  And  so  look  at the  poll  and  see  basically  the  questions. And  then  what  we're  going  to  do  is  then kind  of  talk  through  we're  going  to  talk through  some  of  that,  okay? Are  there  any  questions  before  we get  started  in  this  activity? Wonderful.  Let's  go.  5  minutes, talk  with  your  neighbors, and  then  we'll  dive  in,  all  right. I  Is  it  guys  or  no? Is  it  working  for  you  or  is  it? Okay.  Great. Question,  clarifications. Everyone  Questions? No.  You  lost  your  whole  row  back  here. All  right.  T,  ta,  ta,  ta. Okay.  Questions?  You  good? Okay.  I  wanted  to  ask  you.  This  is  the  time. That's  it.  For  all  the  homework  I  have  to  do, I  know  you  told  us  to  write down  on  our  notes  and  upload. But  for  the  Pip,  can  I  just, all  done  on  five?  That's  fine. Some  students  too  later  on, they'll  just  generate  a  Jupyter  notebook showing  all  their  work  and  submit  that  too. That's  fine  for  me.  There's  something that  evidence.  What  you  need. Hey,  Eli.  Students  work. I  can  see  Say  it  again. How  did  I  determine  the  property?  To  how  did the  property  pressure  property is  the  same  thing. I  just  like  to  know  follow  your  thinking. It's  like  there's theoretical  questions  they  ask  me. The  theoretical  questions  are  the  worst. Sometimes  you  got  to  write  the  most. We're  going  to  deal  with  those  today. You  expects. Homework  is  practice  for  you. When  it's  a  quiz,  then  it's  live  fire and  then  a  grade  there  defend  yourself. Think  like  a  lawyer. Show  your  work.  If  you just  write  true  or  false, I'm  going  to  give  you  one  point. Let's  show  your  thinking  of  why. You  don't  practice  on  homework  and do  it  just  a  quiz,  you're  not  going  to. I  don't  really  see  a  difference. The  whole  point  of the  homework  is  each  game change  on  a  quiz,  right? You  got  to  read.  Okay,  let's  have  a  look. Submit  your  answers.  Even  if  they  feel  wrong, just  do  it.  All  right.  Present. I  got  14. Let's  get  it  to  20,  and then  I'll  start  talking. All  right.  Let's  move  around. Okay.  Does  the  internal  energy of  this  gas  change  during  this  process? Yes,  internal  energy  for an  ideal  gas  depends on  temperature,  pressure  and  volume. No  internal  energy  for an  ideal  gas  only  depends  on  temperature. Okay.  Who  is  opposing? Who  says  that  an  ideal  gas depends  on  more  than  temperature? Name?  Alex.  Alex.  Why?  Gut  feelings. I  like  gut  feelings.  Okay.  You  can also  write  that  in  your  quiz. Alex  said  gut  feeling.  Yes? Also  for  that  one.  How  about the  internal  energy  only  depends on  temperature  and  not  Alex's  gut. The  side,  you're  in  the  majority. Sure.  What  is  an  ideal  gas? What  are  the  characteristics  of an  ideal  gas  that  I  told  you  in  this  class? They're  balls.  How  does  it  possess  energy? What  type  of  energy  does  it  possess? The  energy. Thermal,  hold  on,  hold  on. In  the  back  here,  Navy  kinetic  energy. Trasional  call  translational, it  possesses  translational  energy, which  is  essentially  what? Some  version  of  three  halves  mass  of the  molecule  V  squared. And  how  does  that  relate  to  temperature? Okay,  so  he's  in  the  front  raising  his  hand. Here,  go  Formula. Three  halves,  Mv  squared  is  equal  to  what? Sorry,  I  Speed,  right? So  by  a  constant, t  we  call  this  Boltzmann's  constant,  right? So  I  only  possess translational  energy,  kinetic  energy. That's  my  kinetic  energy. My  kinetic  energy  is  by  definition  on a  per  molecule  basis  equal to  a  constant  by  temperature. Temperature  and  kinetic  energy  for these  molecules  are  the  same  thing,  okay? Ergo  this. So  internal  energy  of an  ideal  gas  only  depends  on. Temperature.  Okay.  Wonderful. Questions  about  that. All  they  do  is  when they  when  they  bounce  off  each  other, then  the  point  is that  you  get  a  distribution, and  then  you  need  to go  to  statistical  mechanics and  talk  about  what  the  distribution  is. The  second  thing  is,  it's  a  great  experiment. You  talk  about  expansion. I  expand  from  one  partition into  another  partition  adiabatically. I  do  not  change  my  internal  energy. I  therefore  don't  change my  That  is  what  Jewel  did. That  was  a  fantastic  question. He  asked  that  same  question  in  the  1850s. Okay?  Yes. Okay,  that's  nice. Unfortunately,  he  did  it  first  175  years  ago. Okay.  All  right,  next  thing, using  the  first  law  for  control  volume Delta  U  as  minus  W, in  your  previous  answer is  the  work  performed  by the  expanding  gas  W  equal to  the  heat  which  absorbs  from  the  source. Yes.  Okay,  no. So  other  takers  on  this. Okay,  so  the  point  is  that  if the  internal  energy  only depends  on  temperature,  okay? And  if  the  temperature  remains a  constant  from  the  first  law,  right? The  first  law  is  right,  Delta  U  is  equal  to, um,  essentially,  let's  call  it,  um,  right, Q  in  plus  W  in  minus  Q  out  plus  W  out,  right? I  don't  have  any  Q  out. I  don't  have  Wn,  so  I  have  Qn minus  W  out,  right? Okay,  M  is  constant. So  I  basically  what  I  have  M. I  have  U  two  minus my  U  one  is  then  equal  to my  Q  in  minus  my  W  out,  right? I  told  you  that  here,  this only  depends  on  temperature. The  temperature  is  constant. What  does  it  mean  for  this  term U  two  minus  U  one? If  U  two  is  the  expanded  state and  U  one  is  the  initial. Yes,  please.  Name  Pressley  zero. Presley.  Yes.  Pressley  that's  right. Okay?  Zero.  Okay?  So  if  that's  zero, what  does  it  mean  then  for  the Q  in  and  W  out  then? Presley,  one  more  time. They  have  to  be  equal,  right? So  basically,  therefore,  right, W  out  must  be  equal  to  Q  in,  okay? Awesome.  Is  this  a  contradiction  of Kelvin's  postulate?  Be  prepared  to  discuss. Yes  and  no.  Okay.  What  did  you  think? Name  and  what  are  your  thoughts? Sid?  Also  was  a  great  rocker. Pink  Floyd,  first  one.  Okay. That's  great.  I  hear a  couple  of  things.  It's  not  possible. We  have  one  thermal  reservoir. We  have  one  thermal  reservoir. We're  putting  heat  in from  that  reservoir  into the  cylinder  and  all  of that  heat  that  we  put  in  is becoming  work.  Very  nice. This  side  of  the  room,  third  row. What  does  the  third  row  think? You  guys  are  third  row. It  would  be  the  same  thing. Well Uh huh.  Okay. So  you  think  it's  a  contradiction, but  is  it  a  gut  feeling or  you  have  math  to  tell  me  why? Okay.  What  about  in  favorite  one? Other  than  here,  cow  hat  here  in  the  back, you.  What  did  you  think? Also,  a  yes.  I  want  to  know. I  guess  you  are  in  the  minority  in this  case.  And  then  tell  me  why. No,  I'm  asking  the  questions. Now,  when  you're  on  the  stand,  you don't  get  ask  questions  either.  Okay? You  have  to  remember.  Okay. I'm  not  into  Boltzman. This  is  simpler. He  didn't  know  about  Boltzmann. He's  pre  Boltzman  let's look  at  what  the  slide  said. The  statement. A  transformation  whoops,  mirror  displays. Okay,  a  transformation whose  only  final  result  only  final  result  is to  make  work  from heat  from  a  source  at the  same  temperature throughout  is  impossible. Okay.  Let's  break  it down.  Let's  break  it  down. Okay?  I  can  keep  this  constant  here. And  if  I  think  about, you  know,  boiling  water, so  if  I  think  about  a  process  like that  where  I'm  doing  some  heating, that  could  be  an  isothermal  process. So  transferring  heat  and isothermally  is  allowed. It's  done  all  the  time. You  could  say,  Oh,  prof,  but, you  know,  there  should  be  like a  slight  Delta  T. Sure,  but  this  is  a  reservoir,  right? So  the  point  of  a  reservoir  is the  temperature  doesn't  change. So  whatever  small  thing you  put  on  that  is  going to  basically  become the  temperature  as  reservoir. It's  like  jumping  in  the  ocean. You're  going  to  become  basically the  temperature  of  the  ocean, given  enough  time  there,  right? Or  something  that  they  drop. So  that's  the  thing.  So  let's say  that  that's  okay. So  the  part  to focus  on  then  is  a  transformation whose  only  final  result  is  to transform  work  into  heat,  okay? Only  On  final  result. What  is  another  final  result  that  you see  from  this  process  from the  initial  state  to  the  final  state? What  else  has  changed besides  the  fact  that  you  put  heat  into  work? This  side  here,  Cody. Volume,  volume,  volume. I'm  giving  you  volume  that's  it, like  Presley  would,  right? So  basically,  you  expand. So  that  final  state  that's  expanded is  not  equal  to  the  initial  state,  okay? So  this  what  I'm  showing you  here  is  not  a  violation,  okay? It  would  be  a  violation if  I  did  all  of  what  I  just  described, the  temperature,  the  heat  in,  the  workout, and  my  piston  was  exactly where  I  started,  okay? And  this  is  the  key  part  of the  second  law  and  what we're  going  to  get  into  cycles,  okay? I  can  do  this.  I  can put  heat  in.  I  can  make  work. But  if  I  want  to  make  a  cycle  out  of  this, I  have  to  do  something  else  to get  back  where  I  started,  okay? Does  anyone  know  what  that  something else  usually  is?  Here. Con  Contraction. And  how  do  we  contract?  No,  that's  it. That's  it.  So  you  basically  need that  extra  reservoir  to make  that  happen,  okay? That's  fantastic.  Thank  you  all  very much  for  your  participation,  okay? So  it's  not  a  contradiction because  of  the  fact, like  Cody  said  here  that the  end  state  there  is  at  a  larger  volume. So  there's  more  than  one  final  result, okay?  Good.  All  right. Now  let's  read  some  statements,  all  right? I  will  erase  erase  this. Do  do,  do  do. Which  one  do  I  want?  Maybe  we  want  this  one. Okay,  so  there  was  a  bunch. So  there's  several  versions  of  this. If  you  read  the  book,  you  know, they  they  kind  of  say  the  same  thing, but  in  different  thought  experiments,  okay? So  different  thought  experiments  there. So,  the  first  thing  is  that  yeah, what  we  just  said,  so,  you know,  is  impossible. Alternatively,  right,  it's  impossible for  any  device  that  operates  on  a  cycle to  receive  heat  from  a  single  reservoir and  produce  a  net  amount  of  work,  right? So  this  whole  part that  I  have  to  basically  contract. And  in  order  to  contract, I  will  have  to  cool. Right?  I'll  basically  have  to take  some  heat  out  of  that  system, cool  it  in  order  to  come  back,  all  right? I'll  probably  also  have  to  put a  little  bit  of  work  in  to  compress. You  probably  would  agree  with  that. I'll  have  to  do  that, so  I'll  have  to  put  some  work  in, and  I'll  have  to  take  some  heat  out,  okay? Now,  the  first  law  doesn't  put  any, let's  say,  constraints  on  this,  right? And  here's  basically  a  thought  experiment. Let's  say  I  have  some  system here,  some  control  volume. I  have  I  have  my  reservoir. Remember,  reservoir  is  essentially a  thing  a  thermal  reservoir  is a  thing  where  you  can  transfer  heat  in  and out  of  it  and its  temperature  doesn't  change,  right? Earth  is  basically  you  know, probably  for  us,  like  a  reservoir,  right? If  you  think  about geothermal  and  taking  heat  out,  right. So  you  have  a  reservoir, and  you  can  transfer  some  heat  in  to  that. You  can  transfer  some  work  out  of  it and  you  can  transfer some  work  into  it,  right? If  I  write  the  first  law, right,  I  could  talk  about  a  workout, a  W  in,  and  a  Q  in, and  I  could  make  those  things  balance,  right? So  the  first  law  is  not  going  to  put  any, um,  you  know, it  may  or  may  not  put  any  some,  you  know, constraints  constraints  into  it,  okay? But  from  the  second  law,  right, as  we  just  showed basically  in  that  experiment, in  order  to  actually  do  that  as  a  cycle, you  would  have  to  take some  heat  out  of  this  in  order to  make  that  in order  to  make  that  work,  okay? And  that's  what  this  green this  Kelvin  Pluck  statement  says,  okay? It  will  become  clearer  with  time, okay?  All  right. Yeah, then  we  have  a  Clausius  postulate,  okay? So  in  Clausius,  so a  transformation  whose only  final  result  is  to transfer  heat  from  a  body  at a  given  temperature  to  a  body  at a  higher  temperature  is  impossible. The  way  to  think  about this  experiment  is  the  following. I  have  a  control  volume  here. I  have  it  in  diathermal,  right? So  it's  thermally  in  contact  with a  reservoir  at  a  high  temperature and  also  one  at  a  low  temperature. And  my  question  is, what  direction  does  heat  flow  here? Loud. High  to  low.  Yeah.  Okay.  Okay?  Things  at high  concentration  tend  to  move  to regions  of  low  concentration. That's  the  second  law. That's  how  I  understand  the  second  law. You  take  a  balloon,  right? It's  compressed,  you  pop  it, the  air  expands,  and  it  moves  out, you  spray  perfume  here,  and  it  diffuses, you  make  something  hot  here and  it  spreads,  okay? So  that's  essentially  what,  you  know, the  clauses  statement  is  that. So  if  I  have  something  at  a  high  temperature, heat  is  going  to  flow  or  be transferred  to  the  regions  where it's  then  colder  and not  the  other  way  around,  okay? Okay.  Cool.  You  can  ask  yourself solve  things  like  why  is time  only  one  direction. And  you  can  think  about  Clausius. Here's  the  first  chair  of  physics at  ETH  where  I  used  to  be. Yeah,  exactly.  And  so  that's a  simpler  way  of  writing  it. Okay.  Cool.  He  flows by  conduction,  blah,  blah,  blah. Do  I  have  one  more?  Hold  on. Do  I  have  one  more  drawing  for  you? So  rewriting  Mmhmm. Yes,  I  think  for  this  one, we  have  a  drawing,  okay? So  this  statement is  a  little  bit  more  tricky, it  was  more  tricky  for  me  when  I  was  trying to  to  visualize  it. I  think  that  the  um  The  way that  this  statement  looks  like  is if  we  drew  a  control  volume  here, and  I  said  that,  am I  saying  that  I  have  a  reservoir? Yes,  I'm  saying  that  I have  a  reservoir  that's  maybe cold  and  I  have  a  reservoir  that's  hot. If  I  want  to  spontaneously transfer  heat  from  the  cold  into  this, like  this,  this  is  not  possible,  okay? And  this  would  be  analogous  to  the  one  that  I have  to  the  one  that  I  have written  to  the  one  that  I  have  written  here. So  this  version  of,  okay, I  have  some  system  here,  whatever  that  is. I  don't  have  any  work  transferred  into  it. I  cannot  pump  heat  from  the  low  temperature. So  if  TC  is  less  than  TH, this  is  not  allowed,  okay? For  the  same  reason,  right,  you  know, this  is  not  allowed  because heat  would  basically  flow  in the  opposite  direction  unless  what? Work? You  have  to  add  work,  right? And  what's  that  device usually  called?  Compressor,  right? So  in  a  heat  pump,  basically, this  is  your  compressor  here, and  you'd  have  some  W,  right,  some  W  in. And  then  in  this  case,  actually, this  still  wouldn't  be  allowed. What  you'd  end  up  with  is  that this  is  the  QH, because  if  you're  going  to  write  this  as the  first  law  for,  let's  say, a  steady  operating  condition  here, what  enters  it  has  to be  equal  to  what  goes  out,  right? So  QH  then  must  be  equal  to W  in  plus  QL,  right? So  if  I  do  this  as  like  a  control  volume, it's  under  steady  conditions, what  leaves  must  be  equal to  what's  entering,  okay? All  right. Yeah,  so  and  again, in  order  to  basically  extract  heat  from the  colder  body  and move  it  to  the  warmer  body, you  have  to  put  some  work,  right? You  basically  have  to  put some  work  in,  right? And  that's  what's  shown  here,  right? So  this  last  statement  that  we  had  here, right,  is  I  can't  have a  system  that  looks  like  this. Again,  heat  essentially  pumping having  heat  move  in the  exact  opposite  direction as  we  would  normally  expect without  doing  some  work some  moque  in,  all  right? And  that's  the  Clausius  statement,  okay? Questions  about  second  law? Sure.  David,  right? Yes.  Okay.  It's  a  violation of  Kevin  Clark  because. So  you  can  never  have  a  heat  engine operating  on  a  cycle  that has  100%  thermal  efficiency. So  I  can  never  have  an engine  that  looks  like  this. So  I  can't  take  heat  from  one  reservoir, put  it  into  an  engine, and  only  get  work  network  out  of  it,  right? I  have  to,  I  will basically  have  to  take  some  heat,  right? I  have  to  take  some  heat  out  of that  there,  okay?  All  right. Other  questions?  And  this  one,  I  mean, at  the  end  of  it, it's  a  more  complicated  way  of  writing  it, but  this  one  makes, like,  perfect  sense,  right? This  is  more  intuitive.  This  would  basically be  a  more  intuitive  thing  because  heat doesn't  spontaneously  flow  from  regions  that are  cold  to  regions  that  are  hot,  okay? As  you  might  want  sometimes  in  a  room,  okay? Cool.  Yeah,  so  then  this so  the  reason  why  this is  important  is  because  for  a  long  time, there  was  a  bunch  of  snake  oil  salesmen out  there  who  were  trying  to, like,  come  up  with  devices that  could  beat  thermo,  right? The  only  reason  why  we  have  really  the first  and  the  second  law  is because  no  one's  produced, right,  a  machine  that says  that  it  doesn't  work,  okay? You  know,  these  are  postulates. And  believe  me,  there  have  been some  very  smart  people  who  have, like,  looked  at  that  and  said,  you  know, I'm  going  to  be  able  to beat  it  for  obvious  reasons, if  you  can  beat  these  laws,  you  could  get, right,  fantastically  wealthy,  all  right? Um,  If  a  machine. So  these  kinds  of machines  that  violate  these  laws, they  call  them  perpetual  mobile or  perpetual  motion  machines. And  they  can  be  stated  as,  like, either  a  perpetual  motion  machine of  the  first  kind  or  of  the  second  kind. A  professual  motion  machine  of the  first  kind  means  it violates  the  first  law,  okay? It  means  that  I  have  more  energy leaving  my  control  volume, right,  my  system,  that  I have  energy  entering,  right? And  you  can't  create  energy,  right? It  can  only  be  transformed,  right? So  those  ones  are pretty  straightforward  to  analyze. For  the  second  kind,  it's a  violation  of  the  second  law,  okay? And  then  usually  in  those  cases, it  would  be  right? Maybe  a  system  like  that. So  I  have  100%  conversion  of  work  from heat  on  a  cycle,  but  you  got  to  look  at  it. You  got  to  think  more  about  it.  It's  not maybe  as  straightforward,  okay? If  you  want  to  see  an  example, so  the  one  with  my  students,  you  know, my  doctoral  students, when  I  would  talk  to  them  in  this, those  would  be  like  one  example,  all  right? So  you  have  your  pump,  right? You  move  a  fluid.  Let's  say  it's  like  water. I  transfer  heat  into  that. So  like  a  boiler. I  run  that  through  a  turbine. I  get  network  out, and  then  I  run  it  all  again,  okay? And  this  doesn't  work, okay?  It  doesn't  work,  right? For  the  same  reason  that  we  mentioned  before, think  about  the  piston, you  could  have  the  heat  in, you  could  get  the  work  out, but  you  need  to  return  back  to the  initial  state,  okay? And  you  cannot  return  back  to the  initial  state  without  cooling,  all  right? You  basically  need  to  cool off  the  steam  here. You  got  to  condense  it  down  to a  liquid  because  out  of  this, it's  still  a  vapor,  right? So,  out  of  here,  you'd  have  a  vapor, and  that  vapor  would  go  into  a  pump. You  don't  put  vapor  through  pumps. No,  no,  no,  all  right? And  then,  right,  it  would basically  go  back  in  and  be  that. This  is  not  something  that  could operate  in  Chapter  ten, or  in  Week  ten,  we'll  get into  what  are  called  rank  in  cycles. We'll  get  into  the  systems and  what  they  actually should  look  like  to  operate  correctly,  okay? Um,  Yes,  okay?  That's  one  thing. The  second  thing  is  that  when we  deal  with  the  second  law, we're  going  to  talk  a  lot  about  reversible, okay,  reversible,  right? So  what's  reversible  mean? It  means  that,  right? I  do  something  so slowly  that  I  don't really  have  any  friction,  right? So  it's  like  I  take  a  spring and  I  comprepress  it  really  slow, and  then  I  let  it  go  and  it  comes back  to  exactly  where  I  started,  right? The  reason  why  we're  obsessed with  this  or  why  we'll  use  it is  it's  going  to  help  us  to understand  theoretical  limits,  right? So  we're  going  to  be able  to  understand  and  say,  like, is  this  perpetual  motion  or  not,  right? Is  this  something  that,  um, you  know,  can  happen  physically. One,  and  then  two  tells  you  things  about, like  what  optimum  could  be,  right? It's  kind  of  like  a  glass  half  full, but  you  look  at  it  and  you  say,  okay, assuming  these  kind  of  idelities, is  this,  like,  a  good  system,  okay? And  we're  going  to  talk about  reversible,  all  right? Just  to  remind  you  what  that  would  look  like, right  in  this  video,  right? So  we  have  essentially the  same  initial  states. You  do  something  reversibly versus  something  irreversibly. And  here  you  can  compress  a  lot  more,  right? I  can  do  more  PDV  work  transfer  in, in  the  case  when  I  do  it  reversibly compared  to  where  it's  irreversible,  right? And  what's  happening  in an  irreversible  case  on  the  right, physically,  Yeah. And  so  basically  you  move  them  quickly. You  create  some  like  vortices, right,  some  eddies,  the  fluid  moves,  right? So  you  give  it some  kinetic  energy  or  movement  there, and  then  it  dissipates  viscously. Basically,  you  warm  it,  right. Instead  of,  like,  all  of  that  work going  in  and  compressing  it, it's  like  in  the  spring  example, you  heat  up  the  spring. You  move  too  quickly,  and  you have  some  heating  there,  okay? And  so  that's  why  you  see the  temperature  here  is  higher. So  when  you  do  that  irreversibly, it's  high  temperature than  the  other  case,  all  right? Yes.  Okay.  And  again, we  talked  a  little bit  about  efficiency  before. But  again,  when  we  assume  these  idelities, we're  going  to  be  able  to  set  like an  absolute  upper  limit of  efficiency  for  the  system. And  this  is  called  second  second  Efficiency, it  allows  you  to  rank  and  say  what's  better. And  again,  kind  of  like  a  North  Star, it  guides  you.  All  right. Yeah,  so  friction,  mixing,  blah,  blah, blah,  all  the  fun  stuff is  what's  irreversible. Right?  Okay,  so  we  did  perpetual  motion. We  talked  about  the  second  law. I  want  to  get  into  the  most  ideal,  like, the  most  ideal  cycle  that  sets the  absolute  upper  limit of  efficiency  is  the  Carne,  right? So  remember  Caro,  Sadi  Caro. He  was  a  French  guy.  Old  man  worked, you  know,  for  Napoleon. And  he  was  obsessed  with making  steam  engines  more  efficient,  okay? Um,  And  I'll  take you  through  essentially  what  his  cycle  is, and  then  we  can  talk  about  the  finding. But  in  a  car  no,  you  have  four  stages, okay?  So  you  have  four  stages. The  first  stage  is  what  we  already  looked  at the  heat  in  and  the  expansion,  right? So  I  take  heat  from  some  energy  source  at  TH, and  let's  say  I  transfer  it  into  the  system. This  could  be  a  piston  cylinder, but  I  transfer  heat  in, and  I  undergo what's  called  isothermal  expansion. So  that's  the  first  thing  that  we  looked  at. Um,  the  second  stage  is  now  I  take that  cylinder  and  instead  of transferring  heat  in  isothermally, I  suddenly  insulate  it,  okay? It's  not  a  practical  cycle, but  it's  a  thought  experiment,  okay? And  I  insulate  it,  and  then  I  allow  it to  expand  adiabatically,  okay? So  I  have  isothermal  expansion, then  I  have  adiabatic  expansion. And  during  the  adiabatic  expansion, what  do  you  think  happens  to  temperature? If  I  let  gas  expand, what  happens  to  temperature? All  right,  so  you're  going  to  expect basically  an  adiabatic  expansion. Your  temperature  is  going  to  go, um,  you  know,  down. And  then  at  that  stage, you're  going  to  put  this  cylinder. You're  going  to  take  the  insulation  off. You're  going  to  set  it  onto a  colder  reservoir. You're  going  to  transfer  heat  out, QL  that's  transferred  out, and  then  you're  going  to do  an  adiabatic  compression. So  then  you're  basically  going  to  go  in, you're  going  to  compress  this  thing  and  then basically  bring  it  back  to  the  initial state  that  you  had  there. So,  this  whole  part  where  we  had the  heat  sink  and  the  heat  out, that's  a  key  aspect  of getting  it  back  there,  a  right? Another  key  attribute  of  the  Carne, is  it  doesn't  matter  about the  substance,  right? It's  independent  of  the  substance. All  that  you  care  about  is the  temperature  of  the  hot  reservoir and  the  temperature  of  the  cold  reservoir. And  these  two  things  together  set the  efficiency,  right? And  all  systems,  okay, if  you  want  to  make any  thermal  engine  more  efficient, you  essentially  maximize  the  temperature that  you  get  heat  from, and  you  minimize  the  temperature that  you  transfer  the  heat  to. But  really,  the  key  thing  is,  you  know, transferring  heat  from  something that's  very,  very  hot,  okay? That's  another  thing the  first  law  didn't  tell  you. The  first  law  just  said that  conservation  of  energy,  right? So,  um,  you  know, work  and  heat  are  essentially, you  know,  equivalent. The  second  law  basically  says that  energy  has  a  quality  to  it, okay,  especially  with  heat,  all  right? The  warmer,  you  know, that  something  is  that you  transfer  heat  from, the  better  the  quality  is, the  more  useful  it  is,  all  right? Okay.  Yeah,  if  you want  to  then  put  that  on  a  cycle. So  if  you  want  to then  basically  see  what  that  would  look like  in  a  cycle,  a  PV  diagram. So  here  would  be  one  to  two. So  the  black  lines  are  your  isotherms,  right? So  I'm  transferring  heat  in  one  to  two. I'm  also  doing  expansion  PV  work. Adiabatic  expansion, isothermal  compression, adiabatic  compression,  right? And  the  network  then  is  the  area  that's shaded  there  and the  heat  transfer  processes  are  shown. You  can  also  do  that  on  unpicul. If  you  want  to  launch  that  notebook, you  can  also  see then  what  this  process  looks  like. Cool.  So  I  put  some  of  you  to  sleep. Yes,  please.  Question? So  if  you  were. But  it's  not  a  cycle,  right? Because  you  don't  basically come  back  to  the  initial  state. If  you  want  to  get  back  to  where  you  started, and  this  is  what we'll  work  through  to  basically get  back  where  you  started  and  run  a  cycle, if  you  put  heat  in,  you're  going to  have  to  take  heat  out,  okay? And  for  the  ones  we've  looked  at  here, we're  going  to  also  be  putting  some  work  in. So  there's  going  to  be  like  heat  in, work  out,  heat  out,  work  in,  right? And  those  four  things  that  I mentioned  there  are  going to  form  the  basis  then of  a  lot  of the  cycles  we're  going  to  look  at. Okay? Yes,  please. What  does  the  graph  look  like  when  it's  more efficient  versus  less  efficient? What  does  it  look  like  when  it's  more efficient  versus  less  efficient? So  how  to  answer  that. I  I'm  avoiding  saying  a  word. I  have  to  avoid  a  property  to  get  it. I  will  say  for  now,  that  really,  you  know, if  I  have  a  very  high  temperature  source  and a  relatively  low  temperature  sink that  I'm  transferring  from, this  is  essentially  going  to  be what,  you  know,  what  matters  the  most. The  rest  of  these  things  are  going to  be  little  details  that  are  there, but  to  a  leading  order, that's  what  it  is. And  that's  what  you  think  about. If  you  look,  for  example,  um,  You  know, what  sets  essentially,  like  the  limits  of efficiencies  on  our  engines  now is  that  metal  melts,  right? Like,  you  could  go  higher, you  do  combustion,  right? You  could  do,  you  know,  nuclear, you  concentrate  solar,  right? But  what  sets  like  the  limit  then  of the  efficiencies  of  these  things is  that  at  some  point, you  know,  steel  stainless  steel  melts,  right? That's  in  there,  the  turbines  go  away, even  like  some  combustion  ones,  right? Think  about  aircraft  and  stuff,  too. Yeah,  you  would  love  to  go  hotter, but  materials  that's  why we  have  this  beautiful  building, you  know,  material  scientists  who  do really  good  work  to  try  to make  these  things  survive  it. Yes,  please.  Any  is  not  possible.  Full  stop. What's  the  highest  efficiency? Of  what?  Of  an  engine. So  if  you  want  to  talk  about efficiencies  of,  like, a  modern  steam  electric  power  plant, those  things  are  north  of  40% to  50%,  right,  efficient. What  did  they  start  with?  1%,  right? Like, what  in  his  day  when he  was  doing  steam  engines, these  things  were  less than  a  percent  efficient, and  then  with  time, they've  gotten  much  better. It  also  depends  on  what  you  call  efficiency. So  on  this  campus,  we used  to  do  co  generation. So  it's  co  generation.  I  put  heat  in. I  run,  you  know,  so  I  do  combustion,  right? I  run  a  a  turbine,  I  generate  electricity. I  have  that  heat  that  comes  out. That  heat  that  comes  out,  if  it  comes  out  at a  high  enough  temperature can  be  useful,  right? You  can  then  do  district  heating,  right? And  so  in  those  cases, depending  on  how  one  defines  efficiencies, those  things  might  be  north  of  80%, 90%,  okay? Because  then  the  heat,  it's not  wasted,  it's  used,  okay? And  we  want  to  know  what,  like, the  biggest  problem  is  we  have today  is  we  have  a  ton  of waste  heat  out  of  a  data  center, and  we  just,  like,  reject  it  to, like,  the  atmosphere, and  they  call  it  free  cooling. And  there's  like  nothing  free  about  that. That's  like,  insane. Yes.  Okay.  Other  questions? All  right.  So  here's  what  I  want  to  do. So  basically,  let's  look. So  let's  get  into  a  little  bit  of perpetual  motion.  I  mean, bear  with  me  for  this. I  appreciate  you  guys  staying  with  me  today, but  we  have  one  of  these  carno  cycle. Remember,  we're  transferring  heat in  from  something  at  constant  temperature, and  then  we're  rejecting it  to  something  that's  also at  a  constant  temperature,  but  it's  lower. Let  me  launch  the  poll  and then  you  can  discuss  with  this. Blah,  blah,  blah  here. Okay.  There  we  go. I  All  right,  so  you  want  to  be  stingy,  okay, just  like  I  showed you  with  the  other  machine, the  perpetual  motion,  and you  want  to  decrease  QL,  okay? Instead  of  compressing isothermally  from  state  three  to  four, you  decide  to  do  it  adiabatically,  okay? Right?  So  you're  at  state  three, and  instead  of  going  to  four, you  do  adiabatic  compression. So  the  first  question  is what  state  do  you  end  up  at? And  two,  what  do  you  expect  to  happen to  W  net  out,  okay? Really  appreciate  your  support  in  the  class. Look  through  this,  and  if  you  get this,  you  understand  the  second  law, and,  you  know,  the  rest  of this  course  is  going  to be  very  easy  for  you,  okay? If  you  have  questions, I'm  circulating.  5  minutes. Is  it  working  Cody  or  no? Okay.  Good,  good,  good. How  are  we  doing  back  here? Okay.  What's  your  name  again? Shen?  Shane.  Okay.  Shane. Cool.  All  right. Here?  How  are  we  looking? Yeah.  All  right. What  are  you  thinking?  I  hearing. Mm.  Oh. Because  what  happens  2-3? Mm.  And  what  type  of expansion  Do  we  have heat  transferred  in  or  no,  2-3? No.  Mm  hm. So  if  I  do  antibtic  process, two  to  three  an  expansion. That's  good.  I  like  that. What's  your  name?  Wesley  Wesley. Cool.  You  guys  ready  to  get  called  up  again? Questions  here?  No? Okay.  All  right. So  we  some  answers.  Let's  talk. All  right. Give  me  one  more  and  then  we  can  talk. All  right.  Cool. Okay,  so  we  want  to  be  stingy,  do  it  to  QL. And  so  instead  of  compressing isothermally  three  to  four, we  do  it  adiabatically. And  the  question  is  what  state  we  end  up  at? I  have  one,  two,  and  three. So  second  row,  what  did  you  guys  think? Yeah,  you.  Name?  Jason. Okay.  Now  come  with  your  credentials. I  respect  that.  I  respect  that,  honestly. Also  wanted  to  get  through  the  cycle. That's  good. Okay.  How  about  4.2? Here?  Oh,  wait,  no,  no,  no, hold  on,  hold  on.  Yes.  Your  name? B.  Say  it  again.  Brian. Yeah.  So  what  did  we  have? We  had  the  PV  diagram. We  had  two  to  three, which  was  an  adiabatic  process here  in  this  direction. And  then  what  we  said  is instead  of  doing  adiabatic, compression  or  isothermal  compression. We  said,  Oh,  we're  just  going to  do  adiabatic  compression. So  basically,  you  go  the  exact opposite  direction  that  you  just  came, and  you're  going  to  end  up at  state  two,  okay? So  the  reason  why  you  go  3-2, although  I  respect  completing the  cycle  and  all  of  that, which  I  think  you  still  could do,  which  we  can  get  to. That's  the  reason.  So  you  do adiabatic  expansion, and  then  you  just  do the  exact  opposite  adiabatic  compression, and  you'll  end  up  at  state  two,  okay? Clear.  Questions  about  that? Great  participation.  All  right. Next,  what  will  happen  to  W  net  out? So  I  have  here. Yeah,  David.  So  I  have  decrease  in  Y. The  less,  right?  Is  less. Okay.  Is  less? Okay.  How  about  no  change? No.  Jason,  what  did  you  guys  have? Debating.  Okay.  All  right. Now  I  see  a  pattern. Okay.  You  guys? Group  thank  you.  Okay. Increase  in  white? Okay. So  some  PV  arguments. Okay.  How  about  no  change?  Yes,  please,  Cody. What  is  the  area? Yeah,  I  think  that  maybe  is  getting  to Jason's  point  about  if  we  went  3-2, is  it  even  possible  to  complete  a  cycle? According  to  that  logic,  it  would  not  be. If  I  went  one  right here  I  go  here,  David,  yes,  please. Well,  we  were  told about  three  to  four,  not  four  to  one. The  four  to  one  could  be  shows Well,  I  with  that. 1  second.  Expand  on  that  again. Let  me  walk  through  it  and  then  you  tell  me. So  one  to  two  to  33  to  two. Because  let's  say  that  the  process of  the  isothermal  14  to  one  is  not,  right? Four  to  one  is  normally an  80  batter  process, but  let's  go  with  yours. So  then  it's  isothermal. Yes.  Okay.  But  what would  four  to  one  have  to  be? Isothermal  what  though? Isothermal  with  respect  to  low  temperature, isothermal  with  respect  to  high  temperature. So  is  the  heat  Let's  go  through  it. This  is  great.  One  to  two  to  three. One,  two  to  three,  back  to  two, and  we  want  to  get  back  to, let's  assume  we  want to  get  back  to  state  one. If  I  add  heat  in from  a  high  temperature  reservoir, I  will  go  this  way,  right. If  on  the  other  hand,  I  transfer heat  to  the  high  temperature  reservoir, which  I  think  is  what  you  were  saying, I  will  get  back  to  one,  right? You'll  get  back  basically,  instead of  the  isothermal  expansion, it  would  be  isothermal  compression with  heat  being  rejected to  the  high  temperature  source. It's  like  you  put  heat  in from  the  high  temperature  source. You  do  adiabatic  expansion, adbatic  compression, and  you  transfer  all  that  same  heat that  you  put  in  back  out. You've  done  like  You know,  I  don't  know.  What  is  that? That's  like  yeah, you're  I  don't  know,  living  in  reverse. Like,  you  go  forward  and  go back  and  you're  allowed  do  it,  right? You  could  be  allowed  to  do  that. But  the  point is  that  if  you  do  that, there  is  no  area,  right? So  if  I  just  follow  lines  like  this, so  if  I  go  one,  two,  three, three,  two,  one,  seems like  it  that's  what  it's  like  a  day. One,  two,  three,  two,  one, there  will  be  no  area  enclosed, which  means  there  is  no  work. Right?  You  will  have  no  network. If  you  do  not  transfer  heat  out. So  if  you  do  not  do this  isothermal  heat  rejection, you're  going  to  go  one, two,  three,  three,  two,  one. There  will  be  no  area  contained  within  that, like,  curve.  That's  not  a  curve,  right? That's  just  like  a  line  that circles  back  on  itself. And  so  you  will  not  get  network,  okay? Which  means  that  you  will  decrease,  okay? And  not  just  decrease. You've,  like,  done  nothing. It'll  be  worse  than  nothing  there. Okay?  Questions  about  that? So  that's  why  you're thinking  about  a  power  play. I  don't  want  to,  you  know,  reject  the  heat. You  need  to.  You  need  to, and  it's  for  this  reason, okay,  that  I've  described  there. You  will  not  be  able  to  make a  cycle  without  that,  okay? Alright,  hold  on.  Let  me  see. Let  me  see.  Let  me  see.  Um. D  do,  did  do.  Okay. Um,  Yeah,  so  this is  what's  called  a  fully  reversible  cycle. You  know,  you  can basically  you  can  reverse  this  thing. And  if  you  run  it  in  reverse, instead  of  it  being  a  thermal  engine, it  is  a  heat  pump,  okay? So  you  can  run  a  Karno to  produce,  you  know,  power, but  you  can  also  run  a  Karno  to  pump  heat. It's  just  that  one  is  clockwise, and  the  heat  pump  is  counterclockwise, right,  in  terms  of  the  way the  directions  look. And  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. Thank  you  so  much  today  for your  participation, me  giving  you  two  questions. I  love  that.  Also  the  answers  in  the  debate. If  you  have  any  questions,  I'm  up  here. Thank  you.
