 Hello everyone, welcome to ME40. Welcome to the second lecture, lecture 1B on thermodynamics here in the first week. Again, my name is Claudio Hale. I actually realized last lecture that I introduced the whole instructor team. I didn't really introduce myself. I said that I was an assistant professor recently started. So maybe you hear from my accent or so. Originally I'm from Switzerland. I did my bachelors at ETH Zurich, then did my master's in mechanical engineering at MIT, went back to Switzerland, ETH Zurich to get a PhD. And for the past four years, I was down south at Caltech, and just before the wildfires got up here to get started. So I was pretty lucky with that. Yeah, so today, no, and I guess with respect to the research that I will be pursuing here, it's somewhat related to thermodynamics, but my research is mostly focused on micro and nanoscale phenomena and systems, some of them with energy and thermodynamics, but a lot also covering optics and phenomena involving light. So with this brief intro, let's get started. First, a few remarks. We did, last lecture we did a Paul Evie kind of exercise. I think on some of the screens it says that you have to put in your name to get credit or so. So this doesn't mean that like we take or I take attendance or you're being awarded any credit for solving this. just something that it puts like boilerplate in there. With respect to wait list students, I think the lecture is still full, and there's still quite a few students waiting on the wait list. So if you're dropping the class, drop it fast so that someone else can come in. If you have any questions, so if you're on the wait list and have any questions, please reach out to Isabel Blanco, the study, coordinator. Yeah, and I've seen that. I think most of you signed up for Prairie Learn. There's still a few missing. So if you haven't signed up through Prairie Learn for the homework that is now online, please do so as soon as possible to get done with that. And so in today's lecture, we're covering these topics over here. We're looking at basic concepts of thermodynamics, the system properties, and we'll specifically look at a bit at a temperature and pressure. And so in the last lecture, just kind of recapping a bit, we've gotten to know just this broad field of thermodynamics, this science of energy broadly, coming from these Greek terms of heat and power, and how can we convert it to, essentially. And we've also seen that this broad field of energy is really hugely important. So we've seen that as wealthier countries get, the more energy they consume, the more CO2 they emit and so forth. And for many of the things that basically allow us the high standards of living that we have here in the United States, we need energy, we need thermodynamic processes to run. And so these things, or energy in general, is so important that in the past, you know, nations have started war over energy. And so, yeah, it's really hard to kind of overstate the importance of energy in this respect. So today, we'll leave a bit the motivational side and we'll get more into the details. Specifically, as you see here, going back to the learning objectives, you'll see that we'll just get started basically on the first one over here. So what we'll do is essentially, we'll kind of lay the groundwork for us then to be able to write the first and second law of thermodynamics. And with that, basically we'll get started today. All right. So the first thing then in this respect is really kind of find a common language and kind of a common denominator of how do we quantify things and how do we talk to different scientists and engineers. And in terms of properties or dimensions and so forth, there's a specific unit system that I hope you're familiar with. That is called the International Standard Units or SI Units. And these SI units are basically the kind of base units for different dimensions. And using these base units, we can, basically derive any type of engineering or scientific property that we would like to have for describing a system that we're looking at in thermodynamics. And so here you can basically see the kind of base units that we have. From these, we can actually derive further units. So for example, on here, you don't see anything. For example, denoting the force or the energy. So what we can do is essentially using these kind of base units, we can derive a further set of SI units. I hope you can see my handwriting well, but essentially a further derived set of units, for example, for the force, is Newton. Force is essentially given by acceleration times mass. So if we take the mass here, determine the unit of acceleration, what we'll basically get to what we call Newton, but it's essentially mass per, or kilogram per meter square second, and that's the unit of Newton, or basically the definition of Newton. And similarly, we can go on to other kind of units. Energy is given by the unit Jewel, and that's basically energy or work is force times distance. So jewel is Newton meter, for example. Also of importance here in this respect is specifically pressure. Pressure is force divided by area. So this is typically denoted by a Pascal or Newton per meter square. And so these are kind of the units that will stick to in this course. These are units that on standard, everyone essentially sticks to in the scientific and engineering domain. So we'll have to leave the imperial units behind, if any of you is kind of used to working with these. I know, for example, in the workshop, frequently, you know, use imperial units, but here we'll stick to SI units, so meaning that in any kind of exam or homework, that's basically what we'll stick to. And an important concept in, in disrespect, is also just the homogeneity of units. If, for example, you have some form of of the pressure that you calculate. And in an equation you have, for example, a force of 10 Newton divided by an area of two square meters. And then you have another force. For some reason, someone is giving you that force in imperial units, for example, of a pound force divided by three square feet. So this equation is not going to give any sense. So what I mean with homogeneity is that essentially these different terms have to come down to the same unit for this to make sense for actually this total pressure here to get a useful value. And so this is basically the kind of basis for a description of the kind of different thermodynamics states that will encounter. But in thermodynamics, then we'll basically look at different states of matter and matter basically undergoing different kind of processes and so forth. So at the very beginning, we kind of have to kind of recall or think about the different states of matter that we can actually encounter, and those are predominantly these tree states. On one hand, we have just a solid, then we have liquid, and a gaseous state. And so if we had water, for example, this would be ice, or then basically liquid water, and here we would have vapor. And what you see here is essentially the different kind of atoms that form in these states. So in the solid state, we have essentially a rigid structure of these. water molecules, for example, that can undergo vibrations, but they don't really move freely about. They stay in place. In a liquid, they're basically freely moving around, but they're mostly staying in groups and closely packed relatively. And in a gaseous medium, essentially, these molecules or atoms just kind of like randomly collide and go into each other. Now in engineering broadly, we often work with the term fluid, and fluid basically denotes either matter in the liquid or in the gaseous state, so that can be both essentially. And if we look at these kind of states, one important aspect is also just the or states phases is basically what they're also called the phase changes between these kind of states. So for example, if we go from solid to liquid, we basically melt. If we go the other way around, we basically freeze. If we do the same thing here, what this is called is basically vaporize. The other way around, we condense, we condense a gas into liquid form. And if we go directly from, let's say, gaseous to solid form, let's say from solid to gaseous form over here, what we call this is basically sublimation. So we sublimate. And the opposite is called re-sublimate, or disblimate. Okay, so with this we can now kind of start looking at the most basic systems in thermodynamics. So the most basic thing of study, or let's say most commonly if we have a problem, essentially what we'll have to do at first, we'll have to define a system of our study, and about that system we can then make a thermodynamic analysis. So the system is essentially just a region of space that contains matter in the form of atoms or molecules. And so for this system, we can essentially then perform a thermodynamic analysis at any point essentially in this system. And so the system itself, let's say we have just some kind of shape in space or some subset of space. We can define it with some sort of blob here. And so the system is basically bounded by a boundary here. So this is the system. The system can be anything like a piston or it can be an airplane or can be any thing that we essentially want to study. And we can have is here is essentially what we're interested in and whatever is outside of the system we can call surroundings. And essentially this here is the system boundary. Essentially just kind of defining the basic components here. And so this boundary, it can be physical, So it can be like the actual piston, for example, holding a gas or an actual box, but it can also just be imaginary. And a specific boundary is essentially a vanishing thickness, so it has zero thickness. And if we have any kind of object of study that we define our system around, the system can evolve over time. so the system can shape, change size, and so forth. So it doesn't have to be fixed in time and space. It really kind of depends on what we're essentially studying then. And so with this system, we can basically have this basic tool for performing thermodynamic analysis. So here, kind of showing a few example systems. So for example, if we're interested in the energy conversion processes that occur in an airplane. We may kind of draw or define a system like that in closing everything around this airplane, essentially, or if we can take ourselves, a student as a system, we might just show it around like this, and everything beyond is the surroundings. Or if we take, for example, Earth, or a radiator or an electric heater as a system, we could define it like that. There's no real fixed definition of how to set the system boundaries. It's really like what are we interested in in this analysis. So setting your boundaries differently can also kind of give you a different result on your thermodynamic analysis depending on what you're interested in. And so like I said before, this can essentially also change. So if we have the exhaust here, for example, from the engines, we could also create a system where we define this exhaust still to be included in our thermodynamic system. And so that would essentially be kind of growing over time or something like that. Also, for example, node. Here in this case, how this kind of electric cord is essentially going across the system boundary. And that's kind of something that will kind of just look into how we can think about this better. And so as it says here before, any kind of conducting any type of analysis on our thermodynamic problem, we should define a system, a system of interest, and a system that we kind of limit our analysis to. And so the simplest systems, or the simplest system in thermodynamics, is really kind of the closed system. And so if we, for example, draw a piston, which is kind of our toy system in thermodynamics for many things, so we have a system that, let's say, contains gas of some sort, and this piston is basically weighed down by some weight in gravity. And here we can basically define our system volume, or our system basically by enclosing the gas here. And so in a closed system, what closed essentially means is that there's no transfer of mass across the system boundaries. So this kind of transfer here is not allowed in this case. But in a closed system, essentially what we can still do is we can transfer some form of energy into or out of this system. And so we can then kind of go step further and say, well, what happens if we have no mass flow that occurs across the system boundary? But in addition to that, also we don't allow any energy transfer across the system boundary. Do you have a question? Yes. So energy is not the same as mass flow. It does matter what kind of form the energy is, yes. But at this point, we're just kind of thinking systems in general. So energy transfer in that case could be any form in terms of, for example, work or stuff. thermal energy transfer, and so forth. But these kind of definitions hold very broadly for the term energy. So then if we look at an isolated system, essentially we can draw again the same kind of piston as before. And here, what it means is that we have no mass transfer. and also no energy transfer here that is allowed. Very often if there's no energy transfer, I kind of like to draw the piston boundary like this in kind of a shaded term. Okay, so this is kind of the simplest two systems and then the kind of other important system that will be studying for a lot of the processes here. Those are open systems, so-called open systems. systems or a control volume, we can also say. And essentially a control volume, just as compared to the closed system, is a system where we can have mass flows in and out of the system. So for example, this could be a type of nozzle where we have some fluid, let's say, air, at a specific velocity, kind of going into this nozzle. And at the other way here, this air kind of leaves the nozzle again. Now, in this case, how do we define or how do we define this open system boundary? We can essentially define like this nozzle here, for example, as a system boundary. And as you see like that, we essentially have a mass flow here across this boundary. We could, in principle, also have an energy flow here, also cross. But that's not typically happens for this nozzle element here. So if we had, for example, an energy flow that might be a heat transfer. or no, a heat exchanger, for example, in this case. So another system here, you could take, for example, a piston, and this piston has basically kind of an inlet to this piston head down here. And you can think of basically having a gas inside here that you can compress. but at the same time, you can also remove or add fluid in here. Okay. So now that we kind of know more about how we define a system, we can actually try to describe the system of study, describe the state that this system is in. So if we look, for example, at our piston from before, again, we have some sort of gas in here. And what then basically is kind of the important thing for us to look at is basically the state of this system. What is the current state of the system? And the state is essentially, or the thermodynamic state is essentially the state. Oops. The state of a system that is not undergoing any kind of change. And in addition to that, the state of a system can then be fully defined by what we call state properties. By thermodynamic state properties. And so, for example, these state properties, let's say we have a piston, temperature could be 20 degrees Celsius, volume could be two, cubic meters and a mass of two kilogram, for example. And with this, we can essentially determine the different properties of the system, determine its energy content, and so forth. And so the most important kind of state properties that we look at here are just pressure, as I said, to notice. by P, a variable P, given in Pascal, and temperature, T, given in Kelvin usually, or volume, V in meter cube, or then just mass with lower scale M in kilogram. And so in basically describing these thermodynamic system, we assume that we're basically in the macroscopic scale. So these are kind of macroscopic state properties. And at any point in this system, we can define these thermodynamic state properties. And we are well within this macroscopic approximation as long as the size of this container or the size of our system is much longer than the microscopic length scale, which is the mean-free path of the molecules in our system. And so for really all of the things that will study here in engineering thermodynamics, that will be the case. And in basically doing so, we can study the different properties throughout this entire system. And so in these state properties, there are different kind of properties that we can distinguish. For example, if we take a state in a cylinder or in a box, where we have a gaseous medium of temperature, temperature T, density row, and pressure P. We have a mass M and a volume upper scale V. What happens in this case, for example, if we subdivide this gas here. We basically take this container of gas and we divide it by two, so we can essentially lay our system boundary from here before. We now just look at half of this, right? And so what will happen to the gas inside this container? If we look at this, essentially the temperature of the gas remains the same in both sides, similar to the pressure or the density. But essentially the mass in this kind of subsystem 1 over here, if we take half, the mass is also one half of what it was before, volume is also one half, and similarly for the other part over here. And so this system, or this kind of difference of the different properties here, basically relates the properties to the amount of mass that we have or the amount of the property that we have. And so if a property is independent of the amount that we have, of a certain substance, we call this property an intensive property. And if it is dependent, we call it an extensive property. And furthermore, we can actually also define a specific property. And that, for example, we can do if, we want to convert an extensive property into an intensive. So we have, for example, specific volume, we would go to lower scale v, volume divided by mass, which is basically then of unit, meter cube, divide by kilogram. And if you look at that, that's essentially then, again, independent. of whether we divide our structure in half. And coincidentally, this is also just the inverse of the density, the specific volume. And so knowing the different kind of state properties that we can encounter, we can also think about what we very often encounter in thermodynamics, which is called the thermodynamic equilibrium. And the thermodynamic equilibrium is basically a state of balance of a system. So a system is in a state of balance, meaning that there are no unbalanced potentials in the system. And so another way of basically looking at this is that a state is in thermodynamic balance in thermodynamic equilibrium, if it does not experience any change if it is isolated from its environment. And so, for example, what this means, if we have a cube as before that is now a closed system and isolated completely from the environment, so there's no heat or mass transfer, this gas that we have in here is essentially in thermodynamic equilibrium. if there's no unbalanced potential, meaning that the temperature essentially in this volume is everywhere the same. So temperature is essentially uniform. And so if we could have, for example, another system that is again isolated from the environment. But we would have, let's say, one part of the system over here. here, that is a block of metal, for example, heated to a temperature of 90 degrees. So say we have here aluminum, and on the other side we have a block of gold. That is of a temperature of, let's say, 10 degrees Celsius. We can then basically let these two systems exchange energy or exchange heat. And what will happen is that, this system will come to a thermal equilibrium wherein essentially both these different parts of aluminum and gold or do we say gold, silver, I don't remember. But they essentially become to the same temperature that lies somewhere between this 90 and 10 degrees Celsius. So the temperature, let's say, of aluminum equals to the temperature of the temperature of the the silver, if we call it. Let's say silver. So in the end, there's no kind of unbalanced potential. And through heat exchange, we essentially have reached this equilibrium. And so an important factor here is also if we have this heat exchange occurring, this exchange always happens from the hot to the cool temperature or to the cold temperature. And so for these systems, there's another kind of state, or there's another kind of statement we can make about how we can describe a system as a so-called state postulate. And what the state postulate essentially says or means is if we have some form of fluid or specifically a simple, compressible fluid, again, kind of illustrated in a piston with a temperature and volume, for example. So a simple compressible system can be completely described by two independent state variables, or defined is probably better. And so if we try to capture this in some sort of formula, essentially, what this means, if I have a gas in here, and I'd like to determine different kind of state properties or I'd like to fully determine the state that this gas is in. I only need two properties to determine all the other properties. So if I have, for example, the temperature and volume or specific volume, I can essentially then calculate the pressure by some unknown function of the temperature and the specific volume. Similarly, I can also flip this round, determine the temperature if I know the pressure and the specific volume by some other function, or calculate the specific volume here. And so that's essentially saying that I only ever need, if I have a simple compressible system, I only ever need two independent state properties to define a system in its full capability. These functions here, we can also kind of generalize it as a function of temperature, specific volume, and pressure equate this to zero, and then we can call this the kind of state equation of a material, and these are basically different depending on the material of study. So that could be an ideal gas or essentially a different kind of description for compressible fluid or for water and so forth. And so what we can then really do is once we know how to define a state is we can actually run a process with our working fluid, with gas or with liquid. And so a thermodynamic process is then essentially defined as kind of bringing a thermodynamic system from state one to state two by means of some thermodynamic transformation, by means of some interaction with the surroundings that can be heat transfer or transfer of work. And typically we describe these kind of processes in what is called a state property diagram. So we have some state property and another one state property B. So that could be temperature or pressure or anything that you like essentially. So it's a transformation from one. And so that can essentially be in terms of any direction. direction that we'd like to go we can depending on what we do to our system this kind of trajectory in the state diagram can be a lot different now specific kind of processes of interest if we have for example a state diagram a TP diagram we can have an isothermal process that remains the same temperature. We can have an isobaric process. So let's say this is state one, this is state two, this state two prime. And then finally we could also have an isochoric process. If we have, for example, a TV diagram, then the isochoric would be going like this from state 1 to 2. And so in studying these kind of processes, we can broadly define two types of processes. On one hand, we can call it quasi-static process. So if, again, we have some system 1 to 2, some fluid basically being compressed in a cylinder. So here, again, we have the gas. So if we apply here a force, we can essentially deform this system from state one, where this is the entire volume to volume two. And in this respect, a quasi-static process is defined as an infinitesimally slow process where the properties inside, let's say, this piston remain constant throughout the entire volume of the piston. So what this means is that this piston moves slowly towards the other side, and while doing so, the pressure and temperature remain uniform at the same time. Now, this can only really happen if this piston moves slowly enough. And so what this means that this process has to be slow enough that the system can basically traverse a set of equilibrium states in going from state one to two. And conversely, the non-quasi static process is a process that occurs very fast. So say, in that case, the piston here moves with a very fast acceleration into this direction over here. And what then happens is essentially the pressure over here in this part of the gas goes up. And because it happens so fast, the pressure here is higher than the pressure at the other end. It doesn't have time to equilibrate. And what this basically is then termed is a non-quazi static process. So we're not going through a set of equilibrium processes. And in thermodynamics, basically, we always prefer to work with these quasi-static processes. They're much easier to describe, and typically it also happens that they're more efficient, so produce more work output than the non-quazistatic processes. And so finally, if you want to do something useful with these processes, is we can go to a case where we have a system that runs through multiple processes. For example, a system that looks like this, where we have a PV diagram, state one, state two, three, and four, and we traverse this system. going around like this. And so putting together several cycles basically allows us then to create a heat engine and starting to extract useful work from the actual thermodynamic system of interest. So with this, I don't want to keep you waiting around much longer. We'll have to kind of pick up next week on the later part, on going into the density and also temperature. But then basically, for next week, what we'll get to look at is to look at different kind of energies and also see how we can do energy transfers. All right, so if this, have a good weekend. Come see me down here if you have a question, please. Thank you.