Okay,  we're  going  to continue  with  the  energy  analysis, specifically  of  this  problem  here, which  we  had  with  the  fire  drill  there. So  basically,  we  have  a  piston. We  have  electrical  work that's  being  transferred  to  the  system  here. It's  a  closed  system  because  we  don't  have any  mass  flowing  out  of  it. And  we're  going  to  look  at  analyzing what  is  the  final  temperature as  a  result  of  this  process. Before  we  were  rudely interrupted  by  the  fire  alarm, We  were  at  this  stage  here. So  we  wrote  the  energy  balance of  our  control  volume  there. So  this  is  right  the  energy change  is  our  bank  account  here, so  our  energy  account. So  change  in  internal  energy, change  in  kinetic  energy, change  in  potential  energy  within that  control  volume  is  equal  to the  energy  transferred  into  it, minus  the  energy  taken  out  of  it. We  recognize  that  there  was  no  heat  Sorry. This  is  For  the  video. So  we  recognize  there was  no  heat  transferred  in. We  had  work  being  transferred  in, which  is  equal  to voltage  times  current  times  time, the  duration  that  that's  applied. We  recognize  that  there's heat  being  transferred  out, and  we  expect  that  there's  work  to  be transferred  out  from  that. We  had  no  expectation  of a  change  in  kinetic  or  potential  energy within  the  control  volume for  the  work  being  transferred  out,  right? This  is  going  to  be  a  boundary  work, the  pistons  gonna  move. So  that's  going  to  be  basically displacement  work,  right? This  is  going  to  be  the  integral of  P  V  from  state  one  to  two. Since  it's  a  constant  pressure  process, p  can  be  taken  outside  that  integral. So  that's  nothing  but  p  times V  two  minus  V  one, and  the  change  in  internal  energy  is two  minus  one  there. So  that's  where  we  were. I'm  going  to  shift  this  over  to  the  side  now. So  if  we  substitute  all  of  that, Oh,  here's  my  colored  markers.  Alright. If  we  substitute  But  all  of that  in  and  with those  variables  being  removed  right. So  we're  going  to  have  v  times  t, remember  voltage  current  time minus  Q.  I  feel  like  I'm  not  that  loud. Q  minus  P  V  two  minus  V  one, and  that's  going  to  be  equal to  two  minus  one. I'm  expanding  the  Delta  u  to  be two  minus  one.  We  can  re  arrange. So  if  we  combine  the first  and  the  second  states  together, so  we  can  write  u  two  plus  P  V  two, basically,  we  send  PV  two  to  the  other  side, is  then  equal  to  u  one  plus  PV  one, the  negative  and  the  negative. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  plus V  i  t  or  electrical  work  term, and  then  minus  the  Q. And  this  is  a  very  important  moment in  thermodynamics  education. We're  going  to  add  a  new  character, a  new  property  here. I'm  going  to  give  it  to  you  as  if  it  came down  from  on  high for  the  moment,  but  later  on, we'll  explore, mathematically,  its  definition. Internal  energy,  plus  P  V  is  by  definition, what  we  call  enthalp,  right, which  we  write  as  a  capital  H  there. It's  energy  like  internal  energy, but  it's  the  internal  energy  plus the  pressure  at  that  state  times  the  volume. To  be  strictly  correct  here,  right? I'm  writing  here  that  P  P is  equal  to  P  one  is  equal  to  P  two. So  if  I  want  to  be sort  of  strictly  correct  with  this, this  would  be  u  two  plus  p2v2, and  then  it's  the  same  thing on  this  side,  U  one, plus  p1v1  is  then  what  we  call  hp  one  H  one, H  two  is  equal  to  one  plus  V  t  minus  Q  out. All  right?  And  that  was  what the  fire  alarm  again  rudely interrupted  us  was  that literally  this  crucial  juncture in  the  road  of  a  definition. If  we  divide,  we  can divide  both  sides  by  mass. So  if  we  divide  both  sides  by the  mass  of  water  that's  in  the  container, You  know,  we  can  then  write  this as  little  H  two. Little  H  two  is  equal  to  little  H  one plus  v  t  divided  by  M  minus  Q. Divided  by  M,  right? And  that's  when  we  make  it  lower  case, the  units  then  of  enthalpy, the  units  are  like internal  energy,  kilojules. When  it's  little  H,  the  units  are  equal to  kilojoules  per  kilogram,  right? It's  on  a  mass.  It's  on  a  mass  basis,  right? Entropy,  like  internal  energy, like  specific  volume,  and  so  on  and  so  forth, are  in  the  thermoyamic  tables, both  the  physical  ones  in  your  book, but  also  the  digital  ones  there. And  so  we  can  look  this  up. So  I'm  going  to  let  me  slide  this  on  over. So  the  enthalpy,  H  one. So  we  can  look  for  the  enthalpy  at  state  one. That's  going  to  be  equal  to we're  going  to  determine that  from  the  pressure. So  we  know  the  pressure  at  state one  is  300  KPA, and  we  know  initially that  it's  a  saturated  vapor. So  we  know  that  the  quality is  equal  to  one  there. How  can  we  determine  this?  So  again, I'm  not  going  to  go  through the  in  your  slides, you  can  see  how  you  look  it  up  there. If  you  want  to  do  it  digitally, again,  you  follow  the  normal  procedures, we  define  the  pressure  and  the  quality  with this  we're  going  to  define the  class  of  water  based on  that  pressure  and  that  quality, and  then  we  can  access  the enthalpy  by  going  water  dot, Little  H,  then  gives  us  the  enthalpy  of  that. And  so  here,  that  spits  27242, seven,  24  kilo  joules  per  kilogram. There,  I  think  there's  also  a  0.9. I'll  just  keep  four  significant digits  for  that. The  next  term  then  that  we need  to  know  is  the  VIT. We  already  know  what  the  Q  out  is,  the  VIT. Is  from  this  120  volts  times a  current  of  0.2  amps  times a  duration  of  5  minutes  times  60  seconds per  per  minute. And  then  if  we  divide  that  by  the  mass, the  mass  we're  given  a  0.025  kilograms. Maybe  it's  helpful  to  switch  back  so you  can  see  some  of  those  properties  there. This  is  then  equal  to  288  kiloos per  kilogram,  the  Q  out, divided  by  M  is then  I'm  just  going  to  write  it  148 then  kilojoules  per  kilogram, right?  And  we  could  represent  this. So  what  would  this  look  like  on  a  PV  diagram? Again,  I  like  this  on  assessments  and stuff  that  you  show me  what  you're  thinking  is. We  can  draw  the  saturated  curve  here for  the  saturated  liquid. Here's  what  it  roughly  looks like  for  the  saturated  vapor. Everything  is  that  this  pressure here  where  P  one  is  equal  to  P  two. We're  starting  off  as  a  saturated  vapor, and  we  have an  expectation  because  we're  essentially heating  the  vessel  that  we're probably  doing  something  like  that. You're  moving  to  a  a less  dense  state  there,  right? You're  basically  expanding  the  system. So  this  is  all  good.  I  um I'm  gonna  slide  this  over slide  this  over  and  s. So  now  for  the  final  piece, so  what  we  need  to  know  now is  the  property  at  state  two. So  we  started  here  with  State  one, right?  That's  our  state  two. And  so  if  we  want  to  know the  temperature  at  State  two, we  need  to  know  at  least  two  of the  of  the  thermoyamic  properties. We  know  pressure. And  what  we're  going  to  do  is we're  going  to  determine  H  two. We're  going  to  determine  H  two, so  the  enthalp  at  State  two. So  from  our  right? F  our  original  formula  here. So  H  two  is  equal to  H  two  is  equal  to  one  plus  V  IT  divided by  M  minus  QR  divided  by  M.  So  that's  how we're  going  to  determine  that. So  putting  it  all  together, H  two  is  2724, kilojules  per  kilogram  plus  288, kilos  per  kilogram  -148  kilos  per  kilogram. So  overall,  that's  going  to  be 2864  kilo  joules  per  kilogram. Now,  again,  you  could  do this  manually  with  your  manual  table. So  this  is  now  a  superheated  vapor, just  as  I  had  drawn  on  the  PV  diagram, that's  table  A  six. Alternatively,  you  could  go here  and  do  the  same  thing, define  for  state  two,  your  pressure. So  P  two  is  equal  to  P  one. Calculate  the  enthalp  two, just  as  I've  done  here  to  get  that  number, define  the  class  at  that  state,  right? So  our  module  based  on  P  two, P  is  equal  to  p  two,  H  is  equal  to  H  two. And  then  using  that  class  there, so  the  dot  notation,  you're  then going  to  get  the  temperature. So  straightaway  from  that  calculation, you're  going  to  have  472. Calvin  has  the  final  temperature, subjecting  273.15,  you're  going to  end  up  with  almost  200  degrees  C. That's  a  wrong  notation. I'm  going  to  cover  the  K  there that  should  be  a  C. So  out  of  that,  then  we  see  that  T  two  is approximately  200  degrees  C. Okay.  Is  that  clear? Any  questions  about  that  process? Yes,  please.  So  it's  at  the  back. Yeah. So  If  you  go to  the  appendix  of  your  textbook, most  thermomic  textbooks,  you  go to  the  appendix  of  them, and  you're  going  to  have  a  bunch  of  tables. This  is  what  the  saturated  table A  five  looks  like  here. All  right.  That's  what the  superheated  tables  are going  to  look  like. That's  the  table  A  six.  All  right. But  I  just  want  to  say  that a  much  more  convenient  way  to  look  at these  properties  is  to  use  this  module. And  then,  like  I  said,  with  the  dot  notation, after  you  define  that  class, temperatures,  pressures, enthalpies,  entropies. It's  going  to  get  much more  convenient  if  you  work with  this  later  on  when  we  analyze  systems. Okay.  Yes,  please  in the  back.  No,  you  couldn't  have. So  how  would  you  know  if  I  worked  with,  like, a  capital  internal  energy  a Capital  entop  there,  right? That  means  it's  basically going  to  depend  on  the  size of  the  system  that  we  work  with. So  we  have  to  basically  have  it  on  on Little  H  basis  cause we  want  to  look  up  tables  and  stuff. Der  So  here  this  is  the  definition,  right? So  the  question  was, the  difference  between  big  H  and  little  H. So  big  H  is  kilojoules. Little  H  is  kilojoules  per  kilogram. So  think  of  this  as,  like,  I  don't  know. The  equivalent  volume  specific  volume,  right? Meters  cubed  meters  cube  per  kilogram. If  you  go  to  a  table  and  you look  up,  you  know,  you  want  to  know, you're  not  going  to  go  to  a  table  and  look  up what's  the  volume  of  something, you're  going  to  look  up  what's the  specific  volume  of  something. So  that's  the  difference. So  extensive,  you  know,  intensive. Depends  on  size  doesn't  depend  on  size. Okay.  Other  questions. Great.  Great.  So  we  got through  that  interruption.  All  right. Cool. So  that's  the  learning  objectives  for  today. We're  going  to  talk about  some  incompressible  substances, and  we're  going  to  analyze continue  with  analyzing some  closed  systems  here. So,  again,  a  very  similar  example. I'm  going  to  erase  with  this. All  right.  That's  one. All  right. That's  two. Alright,  so  in  this  problem, here,  what  we're  doing  is  we're dealing  no  longer  with  water  vapor. We're  working  with  nitrogen. Again,  similar  problem, we're  told  to  constant  pressure. We're  given  instead  of the  initial  mass,  the  initial  volume. So  maybe  what  you  already go  off  in  your  head  is  that  you could  do  the  ideal  gas,  determine  the  mass, if  you  have  that  plus  either  pressure or  temperature  of  your  system. And  just  like  the  other  problem here,  we're  doing  work, we're  transferring  work  into this  control  volume. Electrically. So  here  ten  times  more  amperage, the  same  voltage,  and  I believe  the  same  duration. In  this  case,  because  we're  working with  this,  you  know, gas  at  these  conditions, we're  not  dealing  with  saturation. If  you  want  to  make  nitrogen  saturated, you  got  to  make  it  really cold.  Like,  I  know,  -200. Celsius.  I  think  to  get  a  liquid. So  here,  you  don't  have any  of  the  vapor  dome. You're  just  starting  with  this initial  volume  and  a  pressure, keeping  that  pressure  constant  and expanding  to  that  state. And  just  like  the  previous  problem,  right? We're  talking  about  the  change in  energy  in  this  control  volume  is  equal  to the  net  heat  that  we  transfer in  plus  the  net  work  that  we  transfer  in. All  right.  The  other  thing  I  want  to note  is  for  this  problem,  hopefully, you  all  had  a  chance  to  look  over the  short  videos  that I  sort  of  shared  with  you. But  for  this,  we're  going  to  be  working  with some  spe  specific  heats. So  here  for  that  to  look  up the  values  for  nitrogen. This  is  Table  A  two,  see you  have  this  temperature that  we're  working  at, and  then  that's  the  specific  heat at  constant  pressure  of  nitrogen,  right? And  just  to  remind  you,  you  know, specific  heats  are  like  a  way. I  think  this  was  brought  up  in some  of  the  earlier  lectures. You  know,  if  you  want  to  know  for something  that's  not  changing  phase, when  you  transfer  heat  to  it,  you  know, how  big  is  the  temperature  rise for  that  amount  of heat  that  you  transfer  to  it,  right? Another  thing  that  is  sometimes called  is  heat  capacity,  right? So  if  it  has  a  high  capacity, it  means  you  have  to  transfer, a  lot  of  heat  in  order  to  see an  appreciable  change  in  temperature. Okay.  So  first  step  in  this,  so  as  I  said, we  can  write  our  formula, so  for  the  control  volume. So  as  this  is  a  closed  system, we  don't  have  mass  coming  in  or  out. So  the  only  ways  we  can  transfer energy  are  through  heat  and  work. So  for  the  in, so  we  can  say  Q  in  plus  WN minus  Q  plus  W is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  change of  the  energy  within the  control  volume,  right? That's  Delta  U,  internal  energy  plus kinetic  energy  change plus  potential  energy  change. We  don't  have  any  expectation  here of  this  is  not  changing  height. We  don't  have  any  indication that  we're  like,  you  know, accelerating  the  fluid  in  there. So  these  two,  we  expect  to  be  to  be  zero. We  do  see  that  we  have  some  Q that's  being  transferred  out. So  we  see  that  that's 2.8  kilojoules  are  being  transferred  out. We  have  work  that's  being  transferred  in. So  just  like  last  time,  sorry, work  that's  being  transferred  in is  being  transferred  in  electrically. So  again,  that's  going  to  be  V and  T,  so  duration. And  we  don't  see  any  heat. We  don't  see  any  heat  that's being  transferred  in, so  that  that  will  be  a  zero.  All  right? So  we  substituted  in  the  numbers. We  have  120  volts. Times  two  amps  times  five  times  60  seconds. I  have  72  72 kilojoules  then  of  electrical  work, being  being  transferred in,  so  that's  very  good. We  have  that.  We  have  that.  The  next  step in  this  for  the  solving is  we  need  to  determine the  mass  of  the  nitrogen. So  for  this,  we  can  look  at the  ideal  gas  equation. So  we  have  the  p1v1  is  equal  to r  R  t  one  times  mass  here. So  if  you  look  so  a  lot  of  times, it's  like  PV  is  equal  to  n  n  RT. You  can  also  do  it  on  a  mass  basis. I  want  to  see  here  really  quickly if  it's  given  in  this  table. It  is  not,  but  if  you  look  if  you  look in  the  table  of the  book  at  the  back  in the  appendix  of  your  book. It  also  gives  the  ideal  gas  constant in  the  mass. So  the  units  I  can  say  the  value. The  value  here  then  is  equal  to 0.297  kilopascals  times  meters cubed  divided  by  kilograms. Times  times  Kalvin. So  if  we  rearrange  this  formula, we're  going  to  have  m  is  equal  to  p1v1 divided  by  r  in  t.  We  substitute, we  have  400  times  ten  to  the  3  pascals. Now  I'm  switching  to SI  units  because  I  need  to  be careful  if  I  want  to  get  this  to be  kilograms  in  the  end. I  have  0.5  meters  cubed  as  the  volume  given. The  ideal  gas  constant  is  then 0.297  times  ten  to the  3  pascals  meters cubed  per  kilogram  Calvin. And  then  the  temperature is  then  27  plus  273.15, which  is  essentially  300  Kalvin. So  this  is  300  Calvin  there. And  then  our  mass. The  end  of  this  is  then 2.245  kilograms  is  in the  mass  of  the  nitrogen  that we  have  in  there. I  want  to  switch sides  for  a  second  with  this. Right?  All  right. And  we  can  define  now  the  work  out. So  our  work  out  here. So  we're  told  it's a  constant  pressure  process. So  the  work  that's  out  is  going  to  be nothing  but  the  area  that's under  this  curve,  as  we  recall,  right? So  that's  going  to  be P.  We're  going  to  write  P  one. So  we're  going  to  say  it's  P  one since  P  one  is  P  two is  then  V  two  minus  V  one. If  we  substitute  that  in  and  rearrange, just  as  we  did  last  time, we're  going  to  be  able  to  form  enthalpies. So  this  is  going  to  be  our  V. Maybe  it's  easier  for  those  who see  if  I  slide  this  all  over. But  if  we  go  like  that, we  can  then  write  our  VIT, V  I  t  minus  Q  out, and  let's  say  on  the  left  hand  side, we  can  keep  our  plus  p1v1. This  Delta  u,  this  is  u  two  minus  u  one, so  we  can  bring  u  one  to  the  left  hand  side. That's  then  plus  one  is  then  equal  to  u  two, and  we  can  then  move our  P  V  two  to  the  other  side. So  this  would  be  plus p1v2.  Am  I  missing  something? No.  We're  told  that  P  one  is  equal  to  P  two. So  then  this  is  P  two  there. And  as  we  had  before, p1v1  plus  one  is going  to  be  H  one  and  the  same  for  here, two  plus  p2v2  is  going  to  be  H  two,  p1p2. Again,  just  as  we  did  last  time again  divided  by  mass,  the  mass  is  constant. We're  not  transferring  any  mass in  or  mass  out. This  is  divided  by  M. This  is  going  to  become  Little  H  one. And  this  is  going  to  become Little  Little  H  two  there,  right? Alright. Last  time,  that  went  out, and  then  we  got  the  alarm. So  that's  I  don't  know,  foreboding. The  correlation  is  not  causation,  right? Okay. So And  what  I had  told  you  what  I  told  you in  the  in  the  notes  before  for  an  ideal  gas. So  what  we're  going  to  assume  now  is nitrogen  is  an  ideal  gas. All  right.  And  for  an  ideal  gas, the  changes  in  internal  energy and  changes  in  enthalpy  are  equal  to. You  know,  CV,  specific  heat  for constant  volume  times  the  change in  the  temperature  of  that  process, and  changes  in  enthalpy  are  equal  to  the  CP. So  the  specific  heat at  constant  pressure  times Delta  T  times  Delta  T  there,  right? U  You  can  also  write  this  like  this. We  can  do  it  with  the  capital  U. So  capital  U  is  then  equal  to M  mass,  CV,  Delta  T, and  then  is  equal  to M  CP  CP  Delta  T,  like  that. All  right.  All  right,  Good. Yeah.  So,  as  we  said  before, all  of  this,  in  this  case  here, I'll  switch  it  over  to  this  side. So  in  the  end  there, what  we  can  have  is  we  can  have  a  V, I,  a  V  IT. Um  minus  a  Q  is  equal  to? This  can  be  equal  to  the  H  two  minus  H  one, H  two  minus  our  one, which  is  nothing  but  times  H  two  minus  one, which  is  nothing  but  C  t two  minus  t  one  there,  right? Good. And  we  can  pull. We  basically  know  what  do  we  know? We  basically  know  this  work that's  transferred  in,  right? We  calculated  this. We  know  the  heat that's  transferred  out  that's  given  to  us. We've  calculated  the  mass  that's  there. I  don't  know. The  CP,  if  we  go  to  our  table  here, we  can  look  this  up  at  300  Kalvin. We  see  that  it's  1.039. So  this  CP  here. 1.039.  The  units  are  usually kilo  joule  per  kilogram  Calvin. So  that's  generally  how how  it's  written  in  some  cases. I  don't  think  it's  shown. No,  it's  not  shown  here  like  this. Yes,  please.  Yeah. So  in  this  case,  I  believe  that  well, if  I  wrote  this  as  a  problem, what  I  would  tell  you  is that  I'd  be  explicit  about  that. I  would  state  in  the  problem  you've  lost 2,800  or  2,100  jewels  if heat  has  been  transferred  out  of  the  system. I  think  in  Sles  notation, usually  that's  shown  like  an  arrow. He's  usually  showing  like  an arrow  that's  coming  out  like  that, but  that's  something  that I  would  make  explicit. Other  questions.  Yes,  please. Name  Ana. So,  for  now,  I'm  just  going to  tell  you  that  enthalpy  is  energy. Alright?  It's  like  internal  energy. It's  just  another  way  of us  expressing  energy,  right? So  it's  definition,  by  definition. So,  by  definition,  entop  is equal  to  internal  energy  plus  P  V, is  by  definition,  internal  energy plus  pressure  times  times  volume. So  if  right  now,  it's  math, I'm  just  telling  you  that  this  is  what it  is  by  definition,  right? That  it  is  equal  to  internal  energy plus  the  pressure  times  the  volume. We'll  have  two  lectures. Well,  I  will  take  you through  the  meaning  of  it. It  has  great  meaning,  especially when  it  comes  to  when  we  bring maths  in  and  out  of  a  control  volume  there. So  Q,  Q. So  first  of  all,  this  is  important. This  is  a  property,  right? H  is  a  property,  right? Q  is  an  energy  transfer  mechanism. So  Q,  right? This  is  heat  transferred. So  this  is  something  that's  like,  you  know, this  is  a  process  here  that  happens between  one  state  and  another  state. Hop,  like  internal  energy, like  pressure,  like  specific  volume, like  temperature  is something  that  we  can  define at  an  initial  state  and  at  a  final  state. Q  is  something  that  can  take  us from  one  state  to another  state,  just  like  work. You  know,  work  is  another  process  whereby  we can  go  transfer  ourselves from  one  state  to  another  one. Alright.  Yes,  please. Earlier  you.  Yeah. A  universal  gas  So I  believe  this  is  pulled  from  a  table. If  memory  serves  me  correctly, this  is  like  a  constant, and  don't  quote  me  on  it, but  I  believe  this  is  a  constant  that  is  then specific  to  a  gas  there. So  I  believe  for  like  nitrogen  and  oxygen, if  you  go  to  the  ideal  gas  tables, you  can  look  up the  constant  that  I  use  there. But  I'm  relying  on  1-year-old  memory  there. Okay?  Other  questions?  Yes,  please. An  equation  that  relates  Q  and H.  I  would  tell  you  it's this  equation,  right? So  the  chain,  you  know, so  the  question  was,  is  there a  relation  between  Q  and  H? And  what  I  would  argue  to  you  is  that  right? This  is  the  change  in the  energy  and  my  control  volume, that  red  box  there  is  equal  to what  I  transfer  in  minus  what  I  transfer  out. For  a  closed  volume  there, I  can  only  transfer  heat  and  work. There  for  a  process where  you  have  the  constant  pressure, as  we  did  here  from  going  from one  state  to  the  other. We  can  get  the  P  V  two, the  P  V  one,  can  separate them  and  then  combine  them  with  the  use. So  for  this  specific  case, there  is  a  relation  between  heat, Q,  work  and  changes  in  enthalpy. Yes.  Okay.  Other  questions. These  are  good  questions.  Okay. So,  I'm  bringing  it  all  home. So  what  we're  interested  in  here is  the  final  temperature, the  final  temperature  of  our  system. Alright.  So  the  final  temperature  is  T  two. So  now  we  could  rearrange. So  we  could  say  that  T  two. So  we  have  the  V  IT. Um  Bear  with  me  for  a  quick  second. Yeah.  So  we  have  the  VIT,  the  Q  out. We  have  the  mass,  the  specific  heat, I  just  found  from  the  table  for  this  CP at  t  approximately  equal  to  300  Kalvin. And  we  know  the  T  one. So  if  we  rearrange,  so  this  would  be then  divided  by  M  C, divided  by  M  CP. Then  I  can  get  it  a,  get  it  a  CP, and  then  plus  it  would  be  t  one  plus  plus that  then  that  would  be  R  formula. And  as  you  said  before,  so  what this  was  120  volts, two  amps,  five  times  so  300  seconds. The  mass  we  had  at  what  was it  about  2  kilograms? Specific  at  is  about  one  kilojoule per  kilogram  Kalvin. The  Q  out  we're  given  as 2.8  kilo  joules,  the  same, the  same  CP,  and  the  T  one we're  told  as  300  Kalvin. So  if  you  substitute  that  all  in, what  I  have  for my  answer  then  is  that  T  two  is  equal to  approximately  57  degrees  Celsius. We  can  check  ourselves  now. Does  that  make  sense?  So  you had  a  control  volume. You  had  some  heat  that  went  out, some  work  that  was  transferred in,  some  work  that  was  done. It's,  you  know,  not  entirely  sure. U  necessarily  that  it could  be  a  heating  process. But  in  the  end,  if  you  were  to compare  you  know,  this  term  here, if  the  heat  loss  was  greater  than  the  VIT, then  one  could  reasonably expect  that  there  could be  a  drop  in  the  temperature. But  in  this  case,  it  was  a  a  bigger  term. Are  questions  about  that?  Yes,  please. Names  Names.  I  did.  Thank  you. Yeah. Left  right like  that. Thank  you.  Other  questions. Yeah. So  again,  that's  repetition, that's  showing  you  again. We  start  with  the  energy  equation, changing  the  control  volumes  equal  to  what you  put  in  minus  what  you  take  out. Yes,  please. Yes. Those  are  hopes. So  that's  two  p  V  two, and  then  it  was  h1pp  V  one. And  because  the  pressure  was  constant. All  right. All  right.  Cool. Lars. All  right. Okay,  so  today's  example  day, we're  putting  putting  stuff  to  work. So  the  next  problem  here, what  we're  given  is  a  bucket  of  water, a  big  bucket  of  water. Alright. We're  told  that  or  I'm  telling  you. I'm  telling  you  that  in  this  problem, this  container  is  insulated. When  I  want  something  to  be  insulated, I  generally  draw  it  with, you  know,  lines  like  that. Let's  say  it's  filled  to  the  brim with  liquid  I  believe  it's  water. I  think  it's  called I  think  we're  calling  a  water. Liquid  water. And  we're  told  that  the  volume V  of  the  liquid, which  I'm  going  to  call  L,  V  like  that. Is  equal  to  a  constant. And  into  this,  what  we're going  to  do  is  we're  going  to  drop in  for  reasons  that  I don't  understand  in  the  book,  a  hot  rock. So  we  drop  a  hot  rock.  Why  not? Into  I  don't  know  what  it  should  look  like. Maybe  like  this.  Yeah. So  you  have  a  hot  rock  or  stone  here, and  you're  told  that  this  is  a  solid  and  that the  v  of  the  solid  there is  also  equal  to  a  constant,  right? And  yeah.  And  the  thing  I  want  to  note, and  this  is  also  in  the  reading, if  you  look  into  it,  in  solids, when  we  call  it  a  specific  key, we  just  call  it  a  C,  right? So,  for  example,  in  the  case  of  a  change in  internal  energy  there, a  D  U  is  equal  to  C, which  is  a  function  at temperature  times  times  dT. So  you  don't  deal  with  CP  CV. It's  just  see,  right? Solids  don't  really  change. So  if  you  change like  the  pressure,  for  example, you're  not  really  going  to  have  a  big  change in  specific  heat. There  the  substances are  like  incompressible,  right? If  you  try  to  take  a  rock  and  squeeze it,  doesn't, you  know,  it's  not a  compress  compressible  substance,  right? Um  As  you  see  here, I'm  writing  that  it  is a  function  of  temperature. This  is  especially  true  when you  have  big  changes  in  temperature. So  if  you  make  a  solid  really, really  cold,  or  you start  to  make  it  really,  really  hot, what  happens  the  mechanism  by which  sea  changes  is  that  there  are new  ways  that  those  atoms  can  hold  energy. Remember  we  said  before,  things can  translate  and  a  solid  they  can't, but  they  can  vibrate,  right?  They  can  spin. And  as  you  increase  the  temperature, these  different  modes  get  activated,  right? Actually,  if  you  our  real  thermo  nerds. You  can  go  read  about what's  called  Einstein  Solid. He  is  a  beautiful  beautiful a  beautiful  description of  why  that  happens,  and  actually, when  he  did  that,  he  accidentally had  to  quantize  the  system  to describe  the  change  in C  as  a  function  of  temperature. So  some  might  say  he  was  the  founder  of quantum  mechanics  sort  of  in  that. And  then  Dubai  went  after  him  with  it. So  you  have  C  as  a  function  of  temperature. We're  not  quantum  people. We're  practical  people. So  the  point  is  that,  well, some  of  you  might  be  quantum  people.  S, What  we  say  though  is  that  we  talk about  basically  an  average  specific  heat. So  if  we're  looking  at  a  change in  internal  energy  there, you  know,  from  a  state  two. So  if  you  integrate  this  to  one, you're  going  to  be  dealing  with  the  integral 1-2  of  C  of  t  dt. And  essentially  what  you're  going to  end  up  with  there  is  you  say, k,  I  know  what  my  final  temperature  is. There's  my  initial  temperature, and  then  the  C  is  going  to  be, basically  like  a  C  two minus  a  C  one.  Divided  by  a  two. So  you  could  look  up,  for  example, in  a  property  table,  you  know, that  specific  heat  at  T  two, specific  heat  at  T  one, you  know,  take  the  average, and  that's  what  we  call  CAV  CAV  G,  right? Sorry  that  I'm  blocking  you  here  with  that. That's  the  front  row  problem,  you  know, also  in  the  movie  theaters,  right?  Great. Um  You  can  also look  at  this  with  the  internal  energy. So  again,  as  I  said  before, for  the  definition  of  enthalp  is  U  plus  PV. If  you  take  the  differential  of  that, you're  going  to  have  dU,  in  this  case, you're  going  to  give  VDP  PDV,  right? It's  an  incompressible  substance, so  that  means  that  there  are no  variations  in  density, and  specific  volume is  the  inverse  of  density, so  there's  no  changes  in  in  DV. So  that  term  goes  away, and  you  end  up  with the  same  thing  that  I  had  here. So  C  AVG,  t  two  minus  t one  plus  V  Delta  P  then  for  that. All  right?  Yes,  please. So  I  would  argue  that specific  volume  is  on  a  per  mass  basis. This  is  meters  cu  per  per  kilogram. This  is  kilojoules  per  kilogram, kilojoules  per  kilogram,  and then  P  is  Pascals. Which  is  also,  I  mean,  so  these  are  like intensive,  intensive,  intensive  properties. Pressure  is  also,  like  an  intensive  property. It  doesn't  depend  on  the  size. It  doesn't  depend  on  the  size  of  your  system. Other  questions?  Yes,  please  Name. Mica.  It's  okay. There's  a  very  loud  fan  somewhere. Parker.  There  we  go,  Parker. It's  like,  I'm  not  going  to say  the  game  in  kindergarten. Alright,  go  ahead. Louder. Because  I'm  being  sloppy  plus. I  do  these  things  to check  on  you  if  you're  awake. Other  questions?  Yes,  please.  Max,  right? Yes. One  more  time. Partial  differential. Something  like  this,  right? D  D  T  is  C,  something  like  this? Yeah.  Its  partial  sometimes  that do  So  that  is  a  fair  that  is  a  fair  point, a  fair  point  there. What  I  would  say  is  that  here, in  the  case  of  your  enthalpies,  right? We  start  with  the  one  term  and  then  we take  the  differential  of  that. When  you  do  the  partial  differentials, usually  what  you're  doing  is  you're neglecting  some  of  those  little, right?  So  you  assume,  I  don't  know. For  example,  in  this  case, saying  that  V  is  constant,  right? So  then  that  term  basically,  drops  off. I'll  have  to  check  on  the  answer, but  the  argument  I'm going  to  make  to  you  right now  at  face  value  is  that  with  this  approach, I'm  accounting  for  all  the  variations, and  so  then  I  can  write  Little  D  here. And  the  only  time  that  we  end  up with  the  partials  is  when  it's, you  know,  convenient  then,  right  to  say, ok,  I  want  the  variation  only at  constant  pressure,  right? So  The  D  U  dT  at  constant  P,  right,  is  CP, and  then  let's  say, botes  DH,  right  and  then D  U  DT  for  constant  volume  is  CV. Something  along  these  lines.  Right?  There. U  As  a  matter  of  convenience,  right? 'cause  usually  in  a  process. Otherwise,  if  you  don't, you're  going  to  have  to keep  those  terms  there,  right? You're  going  to  have  to  keep  the  variation with  right? You  know,  you'll  have  to  keep the  variation  of  one and  variation  of  the  other, and  then  it  can  become impractical  to  work  with  those  things. And  a  lot  of  times  in  engineering  systems, we  will  hold  something  with a  constant  pressure  or a  constant  temperature  through  that. We'll  see  later. Okay.  But  this  is  a  good  question, but  I'm  going  to  also  follow up  with  you  in  the  next  lecture. Okay.  Other  questions.  Okay. Alright,  so  what  I'm  as  I  said  before, so  this  is  an  insignificant, you  know,  term  with  this. I  have  3  minutes,  you  know,  3  minutes  left. So  then  this  would  be, you  know,  the  change  in the  enthalpy  of  of  a  liquid. This  is  then  your  formula  when you're  going  through  a  constant  pressure. Process,  so  that  can,  for  example, apply  to  something  like  a  heater or  in  the  case  of  a  pump, which  again,  we're  going  to  use  a  lot  later. The  change  in  the  enthalpy that  we'll  have  there  for a  liquid  is  going  to  be  V  DP. Right?  We're  talking  about  PDV. When  we're  talking  about  pumping  and moving  liquids,  it's  going  to  be  the  inverse. It's  going  to  be a  VDP  term  that  we  have,  right? Again,  I  wanted  to  start  this  here. I  think  I'll  finish  this  then  with  next  time, but  I  just  want  to  say  here,  we've done  these  two  examples  here. So  the  ideal  gas  with  the  boundary  work  and electrical  work  analyzed  from state  one  to  state  two  in  that  process. We've  done  it  for  not  just  an  ideal  process, but  a  real  substance  like  water. Um  use  tables  for  that. And  then  what  I'm  going  to  open  with  then next  time  is  the  incompressible  substances. So  we'll  look  with  the  liquids  and the  solids  and the  energy  transfer  process  there. What  I  would  say  before  coming next  time  is  just  check  out  your  table. So  we're  going  to  be  working with  A  threes  for our  solid  substances  with  that.  Okay. Thank  you  very  much,  especially for  the  good  questions  today, and  I'll  see  you  in  next  lecture.
