Alright,  I  got  210.  Let's  get  started. So  today,  energy  analysis  of  closed  systems. So  quiz  one. It's  coming  like  winter, all  right,  in  some  parts  of  the  world. Basically,  right,  you're  going  to  take  this at  the  computer  based  testing  facility. Click  that  link. You  can  learn  about  it.  It's  wonderful. You'll  be  able  to  start  registering for  this  on  the  25th. Look  to  Quiz  one  page. This  is  one  stop  shopping. So  all  the  stuff  you  want to  see,  details  are  there. So  you're  welcome  to email  me  or  the  GSIs,  but  please  just, have  a  look  at  that  before  asking because  it  might  be able  to  answer  your  question much  quicker  than  I  will  be  able  to  reply. We  have  four  problems. I'm  not  going  to  read  them here,  but  yeah,  essentially, this  is  what  you'll  be  asked  to  do  today, we're  going  to  talk  about  Adbtic  expansion in  one  of  the  problems,  okay? Module  one  review  is  posted  today. So  if  you  want  to  generate,  like, practice  quizzes  and  get into  game  shape  with  it, you'll  be  able  to  do  that. So  just  go  to  the  P  one  module and  review  how  this  works. When  you  click  on  it,  right? It's  going  to  generate these  four  questions  that  are  for  you. You  can  take  that,  and  then  you  can  go  up and  click  it  again  and generate  new  ones,  right? So  for  those  who  are  yeah, like  quizzes,  that's  what  you  can  do,  right? And  the  way  the  point  of  this  is  that  this  is exactly  how  it'll  look like  then  on  the  assessment. So  the  way  you  look  at  this, also  the  workbooks  and  all  of  that, it  should  be  like  one  to  one  with  it,  right? Okay,  so  after  today,  right, we're  going  to  be  able  to  do  PDV  work for  kind  of  commonly  encountered  things. You  know,  you're  going  to  be  able  to  say  that basically  the  first  law  is conservation  of  energy. And  then,  again,  I'm  going  to continue  with  practicing  how  to do  general  energy  balances to  control  volumes. This  kind  of  repetition,  okay? Okay,  so  why  do  we  care  about  that? Um,  Oh,  sweet.  Okay. That  playback  isn't  there. So  now  you  get  to  use  your  imagination. This  worked  last  year.  D's  here. He  could  tell  you  if  this  video  worked. Anyway,  so  piston  basically  piston or  PDV  work,  this  kind  of  boundary  work. It's  pretty  much  how  we move  everything  still,  right? We  have  electrification, but  everything  that's  like  terrestrial, so  that  means  like,  not  an  airplane, like  long  haul  trucking,  internal  combustion, all  basically  involves,  right, this  expansion  and  contraction  with  it, right? So  engines,  compressors,  and  things  of  that, um  you  know,  nature.  Okay? So  these  little  devices, the  pistons  and  the  piston  side, that's  what  we've  been  looking  at and  why  it's  important. Okay.  Maybe  I'll  try  it  in  the  browser. Are  we  brave?  I  think  it's  noisy,  though. Okay,  Howden,  I  don't  know  what  Howden  is. Yeah,  there  we  go.  Let's  see. Do  we  have  sound?  That  doesn't give  me  sound.  That's  terrible. It's  only  on  mine.  Okay.  And  it's  fun  music. Anyways,  yeah,  so  you  can, like,  have  a  look  and  see, there's  lots  of,  you  know, neat  things  out  there. But,  you  know,  this  is  sort  of, you  know,  super  important  for  movement. You  know,  it's  kind  of  like how  an  engine  takes  a  step. Also,  if're  like,  really into  if  you're  like  a  real,  like, big  nerd  like  meaner  and  steam  engines,  like, you  can  go  see  this  stuff  at,  like, Tilton  Park,  right? So  they  have,  like,  legit operating  steam  engines. I  think  they  run  on  oil, though,  not  coal  with  it. But  if  you  want  to,  like, really  geek  out  about  trains and  all  that,  like,  you  can  go  and  see, you  know,  essentially  the  piston  movement and  stuff  they  have  there. Okay.  Surely,  you  have better  things  to  do  on  a  Friday  than  that. Um  Yeah,  so  again, we're  talking  about  the  moving  boundary  work. Some  clarifications,  though,  right? So  in  cars,  you  know, in  that,  these  things  tend  to  move  quickly. You  know,  if  you  ever,  like,  read like  a  tachometer  on,  like,  a  vehicle, like  internal  combustion,  right, you're  measuring  essentially,  like thousands  of  RPMs,  right? It  means  like  a  movement like  that  is  probably  going, you  know,  ten  times  in  a  second,  right? At  least  sort  of  ten  times  in  a  second. And  that  is  definitely  not, right,  equilibrium. However,  it's  not  too  bad,  right? The  assumptions  that  we'll  make  are  basically not  um,  you  know,  too  bad. And  really,  the  goal  of  thermo is  for  us  to  kind  of  see  what  is, like,  the  right  direction. So  even  if  you  make  these  assumptions, you  know,  with  the  math and  the  physics  there, we  get  to  really  know  if  we're  kind  of  moving into  a  right,  you  know,  direction. But  for  the  purposes  of  this  analysis, we  have  to  start  somewhere. So  we  start  with  kind  of quasi  equilibrium  with  it. Okay?  All  right,  um, So  how  do  we,  like,  classify  this? So  there's  a  couple  of different  terms  that'll  come  up. One  here  that  we  see  is this  term  sort  of  polytropic. I'll  get  into  a  second  what that,  you  know,  means. But,  you  know,  when we're  thinking  about  work,  right? So  this  sort  of  boundary  work or  expansion  work  that's, you  know,  that's  there,  right, is  the  integral  of  what? PDV,  right?  So  basically, you  have  P  dV,  right? And  the  name  of  the  game  here, in  order  to  do  this  integral  is  we  need to  know  pressure  as a  function  of  volume,  right? So  we  want  some  function  here, that's  essentially, right,  the  function  of  the  volume, and  then  we  do  a  substitution,  okay? So  this  polytropic  is  nothing but  let  me  make sure  I'm  not  getting ahead  of  myself  too  quick. All  right.  It's  sort  of  fair  game  now. All  right.  Right?  So  we're basically  going  to  write  something  like  this. We're  going  to  say  pressure  times volume  with  volume  to the  N  exponent  is equal  to  a  constant,  all  right? Now,  this  is  polytropic,  okay? Who  can  tell  me  off  the  top  of their  head  maybe  something  that  looks like  PV  equals  something? Sure.  Name  and  what's  the  answer? Exactly.  So  what,  though? When  would  that  be  useful? When  would  the  NRT  equal  to  a  constant? Isothermal  Isothermal. So  the  isothermal  case. Exactly.  The  exponent  is what  then  in  an  isothermal  case. N  equals  one. Uno,  right?  Eins. So  N  equals  one,  and  you  have  that,  okay? So  that's  one  of  the  cases. We'll  talk  about  two  other we'll  talk  about  another  case  later  on, which  is  where  we  have no  heat  transfer,  adiabatic,  okay? And  they're  going  to  have sort  of  a  different  constant,  okay? But  the  sort  of  general  formula  of  PV  to the  N  equals  a  constant  is  this  polytropic, you  know,  polytropic  process. What  I'm  showing  you  here  is the  case  of  N  equals  to  one, and  that's  your  isothermal  case. So  as  was  mentioned  there. All  right. Okay.  So  if  we  take  this  way, we  can  do  the  substitution. So  if  we  do  the  substitution there  for  the  polytropic,  right? So  the  boundary  work  is  then  equal  to a  constant  times  an  integral from  state  one  to  state  two,  right? So  I'll  rearrange  this,  right? So  basically,  I  have  a  constant. So  P  is  equal  to  a  constant, then  divided  by  V  to  the  end,  right? So  then  what  we'll  have  is  D  V  divided  by V  to  the  end,  okay? That  should  be  an  N.  It's  an  N there,  right?  All  right? And  if  we  know  state  one, so  if  we  know  state  one, which  a  lot  of  times  we  do. So  what  does  that  mean? It  means  basically  if  we  know  P one  and  we  know  and  we  know  V  one, we  can  substitute  that for  the  constant,  right? Because  you  basically  you  would  have  a,  uh, um,  a  C  that's  equal  to  p1v1,  right? P1v1  to  the  N, and  if,  right?  So  that's  fine. So  we  can  do  the  substitution. And  if  we  have  isothermal,  right? As  was  just  mentioned  by your  classmate,  right, we'll  have  N  equal  to  one.  All  right. And  so  if  we  do  With  that  N  equals  one, I'll  just  write  it  out just  for  clarity,  right? So  boundary  work  is  then  p1v1. That's  the  substitution  for  C. We  then  have  the  integral 1-2  to  two  of dv  divided  by  V  because  that's  also  there. And  so  what  you're  going  to  end up  with  then  is  p1v1, natural  log  natural  log of  V  two  divided  by  V  one.  All  right? Cool.  And  then  that's  the  plot,  right? So  that's  essentially  the  plot that  you  have  there, and  where  that  right What  is  the  integral  of  this? What's  the  integral  of any  variable  dx  divided  by  X? Natural  log  of  X,  and  in  this  case,  right, plus  a  constant,  or if  I  integrate  it  1-2,  right? So  let's  say  it's  1-2, then  this  would  be  X  two divided  by  X  one,  right? Okay.  So  natural  log of  V  two  divided  by  V  one. Good.  Any  questions  about  that?  All  right. And  what's  one  way  that you  could  double  check  yourself on  this  area,  right? So  use  color.  Kindergarten. I  love  coloring. Okay?  So  you  just  go  in  and  there  you  need color  and  you'll  end  up. And  then  that  area  under the  curve  then  should  be  equal to  what  you  have  what  you  have  here,  okay? Great.  So  that's  one  case. That's  the  isothermal  the  isothermal  case. All  right. So  I  can  move  I  guess  we  can  see  with  this. Okay,  the  next  one  that's important  is  the  isoberic,  right? So  the  isoberic  case  is  where  we  have a  constant,  um,  right, a  constant  volume  or a  constant  pressure  expansion, you  know,  process. So,  in  that  case,  right, if  we  define  this  as the  control  volume, we  can  do  an  energy  balance. So  we  can  do  an  energy  balance  on  that. So  the  change  in  the  energy  of, let's  say  that  control  volume. So  this  dashed  region is  equal  to  the  energy,  right, that  we  transfer  in  minus  the  energy  that we  transfer  that  we  transfer  out,  okay? What  are  the  ways  that  energy can  change  in  control  volume? Name?  Cody  and. Right?  So  he  would  be  a  transfer  mechanism. I  would  say,  sorry, we're  transferring  energy  in and  we're  transferring  energy  out. So,  what  are  ways  that  we  would quantify  changes  in  the  energy of  that  control  volume? Energy,  internal  energy,  kinetic  energy. And  because  this  is  a  closed  system, will  we  have  changes  in changes  in  mass  or  no? No.  For  now, I'm  not  going  to  get  too  far  ahead. I  love  to  foreshadow, but  that's  a  little  too  far  for  me. That'll  be  Week  five. All  right.  So  we  have  changes  that  can change  in  energy  control  volumes, change  internal  energy, change  in  kinetic  energy, change  in  potential  energy. And  then  this  is  equal  to the  ways  we  can  transfer  energy  in  and  out, which  is  work,  W  in  plus  Q  in, right,  minus  W  out plus  Q  Q  out,  all  right?  Cool. I  won't  have  anything to  do  with  this,  you  know, in,  you  know,  in  these  cases. And  obviously,  if  we  had  sort  of heat  transfer  processes  and  stuff  involved, which  usually  is  the  case, when  you  do  something isoberically,  you  could  analyze  it. What  I  would  like  to  focus  on,  though, here  is  the  work it's  just  the  work  transferred  out  process. I  like  to  define  I  like  to  define  that. And  in  the  second  half  of  the  lecture, we'll  get  into  the  combined  heat and  work  processes  and those  changes  in  internal  energy. Okay?  So  we'll  focus  on  the  W  out. And  in  this  case, right,  the  only  way  that  we  can  have  work transferred  out  of  this  system is  due  to  the  expansion,  right? So  we  can  have  the  W  out  here  is  again, equal  to  the  integral  from  state  one to  state  two  of  P  PDV. So  it's  a  constant  pressure  process. What  can  I  do  here? No,  this  is  not  Jeopardy. I'm  like  watching  Jeopardy. I  saw  the  same  guy  answer  the  question, like  ten  times  in  a  row. Your  name?  Hussain.  Say  it  again? Hussein  Hussein  The  P,  right? So  basically,  it's  isobaric, so  it  doesn't  have  a  dependence  on  volume integral  of  one  to  two  of  dV. So  then  this  is  what? This  is  pressure  V  two  minus  V  one. And  that's  very  easy.  I  mean, that's  that's  prek  stuff,  right? So  basically,  you  then  just  shade  right the  area  then  under,  right? Basically,  you  shade  the  area then  under  that,  okay? So  that's  isobaric.  So  we  did  what? Isothermal?  We  did  isobaric. Um  And  what  I  would  like  to  do  now is  go  to  another  important  case, which  is  the  adiabatic. Are  there  any  questions  about  this before  I  do  adabetic? All  good? Okay.  Based  on  your  answers  on  that, I  think  you  guys  get  this. All  right,  let  me  erase. Let  me  erase. All  right. Okay. Cool.  Yes,  please. What  is  a  polytropic  process? Polytropic.  I  don't  know enough  Greek  to  say  what  it  means. I  mean,  what  it  means  is  this  PVN is  C.  So  an  ME  40, this  is  what  polytropic  means  to  you. Well,  I  mean,  so  now I'll  give  you  cases,  right? I  give  you  basically  physical  versions, right? So,  you  know,  so, you  know,  what  is  when N  equals  zero,  what  is  that  case? Which  is?  How  do  we call  that  isobaric,  right? When  N  equals  one  we  had  Which  was? Isothermal  Isothermal. Okay?  So  I'm  going  to  give  you  the  last  case, which  is  adiabatic,  okay? And  then  I'm  going  to  think  and figure  out  if  I  know  any  other  ends. But  I  know  01, and  then  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you, I  think  for  air  is  like  1.4,  okay? Cool.  Other  questions? That's  a  nice  question.  I'll  think. You  maybe  think  over  the  weekend, you  know?  Okay.  All  right. Um,  Okay,  so  idiabatic  All  right, so  we  have  our  right, we  have  our  schematic  there, and  I'm  already  showing  you, right,  kind  of  what  the  process  looks  like. In  this  case,  I'm doing  a  compression  process. So  I  have  adiabatic. What  I'm  showing  here  is, why  am  I  showing  you  a  compression  process? Because  I  plotted  it  wrong. What  I  have  here  is  the  expansion. But  basically,  right,  this  is  compression. If  it  went  BA  that  would  be  the  um, that  would  be  the  expansion,  all  right? And  what  I  want  to prove  to  you,  so  in  this  problem, is  that,  um,  PV  to. Yeah.  So  basically  PV, what  I  want  to  prove  a  problem  statement or  show,  maybe  I'll  say  show. Proof  feels  like  a  strong  word. Show  that  P  V  to some  constant  Gamma  is equal  to  a  constant  C,  okay?  All  right? We've  already  worked  with  this,  right? The  N  equals  zero, the  N  equals  one,  right? So  what  I'm  saying here  is  that  this  is  basically the  N  equals  Gamma, N  equals  Gamma  case,  all  right? I'm  not  going  to  draw  the schematic  since  it  exists  there. What  am  I  going  to  assume,  right? So  I  assume  that  we  have  ideal  gas. So  we  have  an  ideal  gas  inside  of the  inside  of  that  control  volume. We  have  no  heat  transfer,  all  right? And  that's  what  adiabatic  means. So  in  other  parts  of  the  course, when  I  say  adiabatic, I  mean  no  heat  in  or out  of  my  control  volume,  all  right? We're  going  to  neglect Delta  KE  and  Delta  PE. And  we're  going  to  say  that work  is  transferred. Through  expansion. All  right,  so  I  don't  have any  wires  or  anything  like  that  in  there. We're  just  talking  about  expansion,  right? So  P  dV. All  right. Okay. Yeah,  so  what  are  the  physical  laws that  we  have  involved  with  this,  right? So  what  laws  are  we  talking  about? We're  going  to  talk  about the  conservation  of  energy. All  right.  A  ideal  guess. Mm  hmm,  mm,  mm.  Okay. So  with  this,  we  can  go  on. So  what  we'll  start  with  is, we'll  start  with  our  conservation  of  energy. That's  usually  how  we  begin  with  this. And  then  after  that,  we'll apply  some  ideal  gas  relation. And  then  from  that,  if  you  wanted, you  could  start  to  substitute properties  and  insert  to  produce plots  and  stuff  like  that.  Okay? So  our  conservation  of  energy,  right, is  we  have  a  Delta  E  CV. So  the  control  volume  I'm  talking about  here  is  the  dashed  red  line. So  the  change  in  the  energy  of that  control  volume  is  equal  to E  N  minus  E  out,  right? The  way  that  this  can  change, right  is  we'll  have Delta  U  plus  Delta  K  plus  Delta  P. So  changes  in  internal  energy, kinetic  energy  and  potential is  equal  to  the  ways that  we  can  transfer  energy  in  and  out of  its  system,  which  is  just  work  in  heat. So  I'll  W  in  plus  Q  in  minus  W, minus  Q  out,  right? Do  I  have  another  color? I  do.  All  right. So  this  is  out,  right  from  our  assumptions, and  this  is  out.  What  else  is  out? Yes,  please?  I'm  sorry. Yes.  Thank  you  for  catching that.  You  got  my  back. I  appreciate  that.  Comments  on  this? Okay,  so  what  else  goes? Actually,  would  that  have  even  have  mattered? No,  right? Because  you  don't  have any  heat  transferred,  right? And  if  we  assume  this  to  be,  right? If  we  assume  this  to  be  an  expansion  process, what  does  it  mean  for  W  in  and  W  out? Louder. W  is  zero. W  is  zero.  Exactly.  All  right. So  then  if  we  assume  that  it's  expansion, then  we  only  have  work  we only  have  workout,  right? Cool.  All  right,  so then  our  Delta  U,  right  from  this,  right? Our  Delta  U  is  equal  to  the  negative of  W  equals  to  the  negative  W  out, right?  Do,  do,  do. Okay,  so  we  can  write this  in  differential  form. So  I  can  say  that  d,  um,  um, d  is  then  equal  to  Delta  W,  um, the  negative  of,  uh,  uh, Delta  W,  um,  out,  which, with  our  assumption  of  this  only  being boundary  work  is  basically  the  equal to  the  negative  of  P  dv,  all  right?  Okay. Um,  So  that  all  looks  fine  and  well. But  what  we  need  to  do  to make  this  work  is  we  need to  deal  with this  internal  energy  term  here,  okay? And  the  way  that  we  can  deal  with  this  is we  can  recall  the  changes in  internal  energy  for any  control  volume  that's  at  constant  volume. So  forget  this.  Changes  in internal  energy  for a  constant  volume  is  equal  to  CV  dt,  okay? So  if  you  remember  the  definition  of the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume, right,  this  is  d  dt  for  constant  V,  okay? And  that's  right. And  the  way  that  we  introduced  this, right,  is  we  had  said that,  you  know,  basically, when  you  analyze  a  control  volume, where  you  don't  allow  the  boundary  to  move, the  relationship  between  internal energy  is  equal  to  Cv  dt. All  right?  That's  definition.  Bless  you. Okay?  So  what  this means  is  we  can  rearrange  this, and  I  want  to  write  this  as  little  U. So  D,  little  U  dt  because  this  is  a  little  C, is  that  d  so  change internal  energy  of  the  control  volume there  is  equal  to CV  little  Cv  times  dt,  okay? And  what  I  will  be  able  to do  up  here  then  is  to  substitute  this  in. To  here,  I  can  write  the  M little  d  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  P  dv. And  then  I  can  substitute  into that  little  d,  the  CvdT,  right? So  then  I  have  M,  Cv  dt is  equal  to  the  negative  of  P  dv.  All  right. And  we'd  like  to  get  rid  of  temperature  now. So  basically,  now  we'd  like to  get  rid  of  temperature, and  this  is  where  we  use  the  ideal  gas for  the  ideal  gas  law,  okay? So  I  can  write  the  ideal  gas  law, right  is  PV  is  equal  to  M  times  RT, where  R  is  the  specific  gas  constant. And  I  can  write  a  differential, a  D  on  both  sides  like  that,  okay?  All  right. On  the  left  hand  side,  we got  to  use  a  chain  roll,  right? So  this  is  basically  going  to  be  V  dp plus  P  dv. This  is  equal  to  M  is  a  constant. We  don't  have  mass  in  or  out. The  constant  is  a  constant. And  so  what  you  have  left  is  then r  dt,  all  right? And  we  can  rearrange. So  if  I  just  put  the  m  to  the  other  side, I  can  have  dt  is  then  equal  to  V  dp plus  P  dv  divided  by  R,  all  right? So  if  we  combine this  and  the  equation  I  have  over  there, maybe  I'll  go  full  screen. What  that  have? Okay?  So  if  I  combine  this  and  this, I  can  write  that  M  Cv  times  up  here, V  dp  plus  P  dv  divided  by  R,  right? So  that's  nothing  but  cv  dt  from  before, and  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to the  negative  of  P  dv. All  right?  Okay.  I'll  spare  you  the  details. You  can  click  through  the  link  and  see,  like, sort  of  the  full  steps, but  I'd  like  to organize  this  in  the  following  way. So  I  want  to  write  that  I  have CV  plus  R  divided  by Cv  times  dv  divided  by V  plus  dp  divided by  P  is  equal  to  zero,  okay? And  again,  this  is just  rearranging  with  this. If  I  take  the  integral  of  that. And  if  we  assume  that the  specific  heaps  are  constant, so  we  could  write  here,  constant  CV. All  right.  What  you're going  to  have  is  that  CV  plus  R divided  by  CV  times  the  natural  log  of V  plus  the  natural  log of  P  is  equal  to  a  constant,  okay? Because  that's  what  this  is,  right? I  pulled  this  out. This  is  a  natural  log.  That's  a  natural  log. Um,  This  here  we can  call  as  a  constant  Gamma. So  we'll  call  CV  plus the  gas  constant  divided  by  CV  as  Gamma. And  one  of  the  properties  is  a  natural  log is  right  I  can  put  this  to the  power  of  that,  right? So  I  can  write  natural  log  of  V  to the  power  Gamma  plus natural  log  of  P  is  equal  to  C. And  another  nice  thing  about logs  is  that  when  I  add  them, I  can  multiply  them,  right? So  here  I  can  write  natural  log  of  P, V  to  the  Gamma  is  equal  to  C. If  I  take  the  exponent of  exponential  of  both  sides,  right? I  can  add  basically  PV  to the  Gamma  is  equal  to the  exponential  of  a  constant, which  is  basically  equal  to some  new  constant,  right? The  exponential  of  a  constant  is basically  a  constant,  right? Basically  constant. And  that's  it,  okay? And  so  PV  to  the  Gamma, equal  to  a  constant is  a  specific  case  of  one  of these  polytropic  processes  where  we  have PV  to  some  N  equals  a  constant, in  this  case,  the  N  is  equal  to  Gamma,  okay? This  Gamma,  we  sometimes give  it  a  name.  We  call  this  the. Anyone  know?  If  you  had  to  give  it  a  name, what  would  you  call  it  as  the  first  word? A  constant. Say  it  again.  A  constant. An  A  constant?  Okay. We're  creative  in  here  today. Other  names?  Adiabatic  adiabatic  index,  okay? Yes.  Okay?  And  actually, this  CV  plus  R  is  then actually  the  specific  heat, okay,  at  constant  pressure. We'll  get  into  it  in  a  second. But  this  Gamma,  you  can  look  up  and see  because  the  world's  a confusing  place,  you  know? In  some  textbooks,  this  gamma will  actually  be  written  as  Kappa,  okay? Sorry.  But,  like,  if  you  look  in  the  book, I'm  pretty  sure  it's  Gamma  as  a  as  a  value. I  wish  they  had more  letters  in  their  alphabet,  okay? It's  a  beautiful  language. All  right.  All  right. Any  questions  about  that?  Yes,  please. What  did  we  do? What  did  we  just  do? You  basically  came  up  with  an  expression  for a  work  transfer  process where  you  have  no  heat  in  or  out,  okay? And  what  I'm  telling  you  is that  there  are systems  where  that's  important, where  it's  important  that  I  know a  state  and  I  expand  it  without having  any  heat  in  or out,  and  it  produces  work. And  this  will  help  you  to  string  together points  when  you  analyze  cycles  later. So  knowing  if  I  have  an  expansion  process that's  at  constant  pressure, knowing  that  I  have  a  expansion  process at  constant  temperature, and  knowing  that  I  have an  expansion  process  with no  heat  in  or  out,  these  are  kind  of  three, I  want  to  call  them,  almost axiomatic  in analysis  of  work  transfer  processes. Okay. I  mean,  no,  because  you  can  watch your  video.  So  three,  right? You  have  constant  pressure, constant  temperature,  no  heat  addition. Got  it.  And  in  all  of  them, you  have  work  transfer through  a  boundary  moving,  okay? Yes,  please.  Depending  on  which process  that  equation  for every  single  one  of  them. I  mean,  it  depends  on  the  process. You  got  to  say,  like, what  it  is,  isothermal,  right? So  isobaric  N  is  zero, isothermal  N  is  one, adiabatic,  it's  equal  to  Gamma, which  in  the  case  of  air,  I  think  is  1.4. Yes,  please.  On  this  side? This  side's  got  it. It's  like  the  right  side  of  my  brain. Okay,  cool.  Alright.  Good. Okay.  So  here's  what I  want  to  do  now  that  I  put you  all  to  sleep  in  that  is  analyze. So  here  you  have  a  case  of PV  with  three  different  processes, A,  B,  C,  and  three  different  work  processes. So  the  first  question  that  I  have  for  you is  which  one  transfers  more  work? If  everything  is  done  in quasi  equilibrium  and  isothermal, which  one  of  these  corresponds to  an  ideal  gas? And  three  and  most  importantly, can  you,  for  an  isothermal  process, tell  me  how  much  work  is  done,  okay? And  to  remind  you  on  the  quiz, we're  going  to  do  some  stuff  with  adiabatic. This  is  an  isothermal  variant,  okay? Let  me  launch  this. Right,  so  an  expansion  process like  that  might  look  like  this, let's  say,  V  one  to  V  two,  right? So  we  start  at  the  high  pressure, and  we  go  to  a  lower  one,  right? Okay,  so  that's  with  work. And  those  videos  that  I  showed  you, like  the  reciprocating,  right? So  the  pistons  expand, but  we  basically  got to  bring  them  back,  okay? And  if  we  want  to  get  work  out  of that  kind  of  a  cycle, right,  we  need  to  basically return  to  the  initial  state,  okay? So  what  I'm  showing  you here  is  a  process  where, right,  I  have  an  expansion  of  work, V  one  to  V  two,  right,  which  is, you  know,  kind  of  like  what  we computed  in  this  case  here. I  have  V  two  to  V  three, where  I,  um,  You  know, I  have  an  isochoric  process  where I  reduce  the  pressure. Maybe  I'm  cooling,  right? Maybe  I'm  cooling  isochorically  there, and  then  I  compress,  right? Then  basically  I  compress. I  go  up  to  V  four, and  then  at  constant  volume, I  increase  the  pressure. Maybe  I'm  adding  heat  isochorically,  okay? The  most  of  the  internal combustion  engines  you  see  on the  road  and  like that  basically  run  on  that  process,  right? Iochoric  key  addition,  okay, you  know,  with  that. So  anyways,  the  take  home  message out  of  this  is  that that  still  takes  work,  right? So  go  from  V  three  to  V  four, I  need  to  transfer  work  in,  okay? And  I  have  to  pay  for  that. So  if  you  do  a  cycle, the  network  you  would  get  out  of it  is  the  area  under  the  curve  from V  one  to  V  two minus  the  area  under  the  curve  from  the V  three  or  state  three  to  state  four  there. So  the  shaded  green  area  has actually  done  the  net  work,  okay? And  we're  going  to  use  that  a  lot,  right? We're  going  to  give  you  these  cycles, engines  and  Brighton  and beautiful  stuff  for  arrow. It's  the  area  then  between  these  curves, which  is  then  going  to  be  the  network  out, okay?  Good.  What  else? So  if  I  told  you  that the  shaded  green  area  is  the  network  out, what  else  do  you  think  the  shaded  green  area is  in  a  in  a  cycle  like  this? The  net  heat  in,  right? Because  ultimately,  you  need  to  end up  at  your  original  state,  okay? And  from  the  first  law,  right? We  have  the  Delta  U,  right  is, you  know,  all  the  work  in  the  heat  in minus  all  the  work  in  the  heat  out. So  to  get  back  to  the  original  state, I  can't  have  any  difference in  the  energy,  right? I  want  to  go  back  to  the  initial  state. So  whatever  I  take  out  of that  control  volume,  right, let's  say  in  work, network  transferred  out  has  to be  equal  to  the  net  heat transferred  in,  okay? Think  about  that  over  the  weekend since  you  all  gave  me  homework. Okay.  Are  there  any  questions  about  that? Okay,  if  not,  I  am  2  minutes  early, so  enjoy  your  beautiful enjoy  your  beautiful  weekend. And  I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions.
