All  right,  I  got  210. I'm  going  to  get  started. So  today  we're  talking  about Exergy  another  E. So  after  today,  you're able  to  define  the  concept  of exergy  destruction  as  it relates  to  entropy  generation,  right? Remember  that's  we  spent the  last  five  lectures  doing. And  then  you  should  be  able  to  define  Exergy, which  is  the  maximum  work. Basically,  you  can  get  out  of  a  system, right,  from  a  specified  state,  okay? Yeah,  so  It's  like  this. One  of  the  longstanding  goals of  thermodynamics was  to  figure  out  how  much  you  could squeeze  out  of  a  system,  right? Like,  how  much  if  I have  this  much  heat or  whatever  coming  in,  like, how  much  work  can  I  get, you  know,  out  of  it? That's  one  thing  you should  have  in  your  mind. The  second  important  part  about  this  is  if we  think  about  getting  maximum  workout, we're  probably  going  to  be  dealing with  reversible  cases,  right? So  isotropic  cases  of work  transfer  as  we  go  from one  state  to  the  other. That  kind  of  other  state  that  we  go towards  is  kind  of  like  a  ground  state. We're  going  to  call  that like  a  dead  state,  right? If  you  spend  a  lot  of  time  on the  Internet  like  myself  and  reading,  okay, you'll  hear  things  about  like  heat  death, you  know,  of  the  universe,  right, where  everything  becomes eventually  the  same  temperature, and  we  have  no  Delta  T. We're  not  there  yet,  all  right? So  we  need  a  delta  to  drive  things. But  there's  a  dead  state  involved,  right? And  if  through  a  process, We  have  some  irreversibilities, which  we  had  said  before, we're  essentially,  you  know, we  talked  about  isotropic  efficiencies, essentially,  you  know,  something  that is  not  necessarily  reversible. The  process  of  doing  it  maybe generates  some  friction, some  heat,  basically, some  entropy  is  created. That  is  associated  with exergy  destruction.  All  right? So  what  I  told  you,  entropy, entropy  is  maybe  a  little  bit like  the  glagraph  is  half  empty,  right? A  bit  of  Schopenhauer, you  know,  like,  pessimistic  thinking. Exergy  is  a  little  bit the  other  half  of  that. Maybe  more  optimistic,  like, you  know, how  much  work  could  I  get  out  of  it? Not  how  much  am  I  destroying?  Okay. All  right.  But  I  think before  I  really  get  into  the  math  of  Exergy, I  think  it's  helpful I  thought  about  this  today, and  I  thought  it  would  be  helpful  if  I first  started  with  entropy  generation. So  going  through  a  process  of  analyzing entropy  generation  for  another  system we  haven't  spent  time  with  a  nozzle. And  through  that  analysis of  entropy  generation, I'm  going  to  relate  this  directly to  Erogey  destruction, which  is  going  to  be  Ero  destruction is  equal  to  entropy  generation  times, let's  say  the  environmental  temperature, which  we  call  is  the  dead  state  there,  okay? And  then  we'll  wade  in,  right? So  we'll  kind  of  gently  go  into the  exergetic  waters  this  way. All  right.  And  then  you  can  tell  me if  that's  any  less  confusing to  last  year's  cohort. All  right,  so  we're dealing  with  a  nozzle  here. So  a  nozzle  looks  like  this,  right? So  the  purpose  of a  nozzle  is  that  you  want  to  take a  fluid  stream  at  some  velocity  and accelerate  it  to  a  much  faster  velocity, right? So  that  means  we're  going  to have  some  gas  flowing  in,  some  going  out. We  can  call  this  the  entrance  as  state  one, and  the  exit  for  the  purposes  of determining  properties  as  state  two. And  as  usual,  if  you  want  to follow  along  with  that,  you  can  do  it  there, but  I'm  going  to  close this  off  because  there's a  reflection  on  the  board, okay?  We're  dealing  with  air. So  our  substance  here  is  we  have air  that's  entering  and  exiting. Um,  It  enters  at 200  pa  and  65  degrees  Celsius, and  the  velocity  that  it's  entering with  is  35  meters/second. It  exits  at  95  kp and  a  velocity  of  240  meters/second. That's  pretty  quick,  right? And  we  have  some  heat  loss. There's  some  heat  loss  from  the  nozzle. And  we're  told  that this  Q  is  on  a  per  mass  basis, and  it's  three  kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  the  surrounding  temperature T  maybe  I'll  give  it  a  variable  T surrounding  for  now  is equal  to  17  degrees  Celsius. And  what  we  want  to  determine,  determine We'd  like  to  determine  is  the  T  two, that's  the  exit  temperature. B,  we  would  like to  determine  the  E. It  says  X  org  destruction, but  I  believe  that  I'm also  talking  about  entropy. B,  basically,  we'll  talk  about  X  destruction. Exergy  destroyed,  I  think, we'll  call  it  maybe  exergy  destroyed. And  the  variable  for  that because  why  the  heck  not  is  X. Confusingly,  the  variable  for exergy  on  a  per  mass  basis  here  is  little  X, just  like  our  vapor  quality  was  X. I  don't  make  the  rules,  right? I'm  just  the  messenger. And  this  has  units, in  this  case  is kilojoules  per  kilogram,  all  right? There.  Great.  I'll  give  the  answer  already. So  the  answer  that we're  going  to  get  out  of  this  is  going  to be  34  degrees  Celsius, and  the  exit  you destroyed  here  is  going  to  be 36.9  kilojoules  per  kilogram. I'll  just  go  through the  analysis  of  how  we  arrive  at  that. All  right,  first  step  in thermo  is  we're  going  draw  a  boundaries. So  we'll  draw  a  control  volume around  the  bonzle  here. Okay,  looks  like  that. And  what  assumptions  do  we  have,  right? So  we  have  a  control  volume. So  we've  got  mass  entering,  right, carrying  energy  in  and  out. Because  this  is  air,  right? We  could  choose  to  use  Pi  Killor to  compute  differences in  things  like  enthalpy, but  we  could  also  treat  this as  an  ideal  gas,  right? So  I  can  use  CP  Delta  Ts also  to  compute  the  same  enthalpy  changes. We  cannot  neglect,  so  we  cannot neglect  changes  in  kinetic  energy,  right? We're  not  going  to  do  that  here because  the  whole  point  of  this  device  is  to, to  take  enthalpy  and  convert  it  into velocity  into  kinetic  energy  here. We  will,  however,  still neglect  changes  in  potential  energy. It's  a  steady  flow  process,  right? So  there's  no  change,  right? So  our  Delta  M  CV, the  change  in  the  mass  of  the control  volume  is  zero, and  the  change  in  the  energy in  the  control  volume  is  zero. And  also  the  change  in  entropy  in the  control  volume  is also  equal  to  zero,  right? Single  inlet,  single  outlet. So  our  m.in  because  of  this, dm  dt  of  the  control  volume  is  equal  to  m.in. Right,  minus  our  dot  out, which  from  this,  right  is  equal  to  zero, right,  which  basically  implies  that  our.in  is equal  to  our  dot  out  is  equal  to  m  dot. So  we  got  everything  set  up  there. Okay,  um,  we  can write  our  conservation  of  energy. So  we  did  our  conservation  of  mass. Our  conservation  of  energy, is  the,  um,  um, right,  the  rate  of  change  of  energy, the  control  volume  is  equal  to e.in,  minus  E  dot  out. Um,  From  the  steady  flow  assumption, E  dot  N  is  equal  to  e  dot  out,  right? So  we  have  w.in  plus  q.in  plus  our  dot  N, which  we  just  call  dot, enthalpy  at  state  one plus  the  velocity  at  state  one  squared plus  g  one  is  equal  to our  dot  out  plus  our  Q  dot  out, plus  our  dot  out,  which  I'll  just.h2, enthalpy  at  the  exit  velocity  squared at  the  exit,  plus  gz  two. All  right.  What  goes  away here  is  we  don't  have  heat  in,  right? We  have  heat  out.  So  this  is  gone. There  is  no  work  transfer, so  there's  no  shaft  work. There's  no  shaft  work  done in  or  out  of  that  device. So  that's  gone.  We  do  have  a  heat  out. We're  going  to  neglect  the  changes in  potential  energy  as  we  were  told  to  do. And  we  have  a  Q  dot.  We  have  a  Q  dot  out. And  what we're  searching  for  it  through  this  equation, we  need  to  determine  state  two. We  know  the  pressure  at  state  two, but  we  don't  have  any  other  information. And  so  we're  going  to  use  this  equation essentially  to  solve for  the  enthalpy  at  state  two. And  once  we  know  the  enthalpy  at  state  two, with  that  pressure,  we're  going  to be  able  to  determine  T  two. So  with  rearranging  here, specific  enthalpy  at  state  two is  equal  to  H  one  plus velocity  one  squared  divided  by two  minus  velocity  two  squared, um,  divided  by two  and  minus  little  Q  out,  right? And  just  to  remind  you,  little  Q  out, in  this  case  would  be  capital  Q dot  out  divided  by  m  dot,  right? So  this  divided  by that  is  by  definition  this, and  the  units  of  it  are  in kilojoules  per  kilogram,  right? Cool. And  so  there's  two  ways  to  do  that. So  one  is  that  we  could just  use  Pi  color  to  determine, so  we  know  state  one. State  one  from  state  one, we  know  P  one,  and  we  know  T  one, which  means  that  I'll  know  H  one and  one  S  one  from  that, so  I  could  substitute  the  H  one  into  here. I'm  given  the  velocity  at  state  one. I'm  given  the  velocity  at  state  two, and  I'm  given  the  key transferred  out  per  mass  from  the  nozzle. So  it  means  that  I  would know  right  from  this, I  would  know  then  state  two. So  from  that,  right,  I  would  know  H two  and  P  two  is  given. And  so  what  it  means  is  that  I  know  T  two and  also  S  two  if  I  needed  it. Totally  valid  approach. Another  way  we  could  do this  is  we  could  start  off  by writing  H  two  minus  H  one  is  equal  to, right,  W  one  squared  divided  by two  minus  velocity  at  state  two squared  divided  by  two  minus  Q  out. And  for  an  ideal  gas, we  can  take the  specific  heat  at  some  temperature, assuming  that  the  CP doesn't  change  a  lot over  the  temperature  range, temperature  at  state  two  minus  temperature at  state  one  is  equal  to  the  right  hand  side. We  can  reorganize,  and  we  can  write T  two  is  equal  to  T  one. Um,  T  two  is  equal  to  T  one plus  velocity  one  squared divided  by  two  minus  velocity  two squared  divided  by  two  minus  little  Q  out, and  all  of  that  divided  by  CP, okay?  Totally  valid,  right? Because  we  can  do  this  for changes  in  enthalpy  for  an  ideal  gas or  can  be  related  to changes  in  temperature  through  CP,  okay? So  these  are  the  two  ways  you  could  go  to  get to  state  two,  right? Which  would  answer  our  first  problem and  the  answer  I've  already  given  you  there. Are  there  questions  about  this? Clear?  All  right. This  should  be  a  cake  walk,  all  right? Good.  Um,  All  right. Now  we  come  to  the  entropy  generation and  for  entropy  generation, again,  we  stick  with  our  same  control  volume, the  same  green  dashed  line  that  I  had  before. The  rate  of  change  of entropy  in  the  control  volume, DSVDT  is  equal  to  the  rate  that  entropy enters  the  control  volume minus  the  rate  that  it  leaves  it, plus  the  rate  That  it's  it's  generated,  okay? And  the  ways  that  we  can  carry entropy  into  control  volume, we  could  have  heat  work,  no,  right? Work  is  not  a  way that  we're  going  to  bring  entropy  in. Heat  is  a  way  we'll  bring  entropy in  and  flow,  right,  a  fluid,  right? I  can  take  a  fluid,  and  that can  possess  entropy, and  that  can  and  that  can  come  in. There's  a  steady  flow  process. So  from  my  assumption  I  said  before, I  don't  have  any  change  in  entropy of  the  control  volume.  I  have  a  balance. The  rate  that  is  coming  in  is the  rate  that  it's  leaving. And  so  this  means  that  it's  zero,  you  know, analogous  to  what  we  had  for  the  rate of  change  of  energy  and  also  of  mass. Um,  again,  we  need  to  get  to the  formula  that  we're  interested in  is  going  to  rely  on  Gen. So  what  we're  going  to do  is  we're  going  to  say  that capital  S  dot  gen  is  equal to  dot  out  minus  s.in. All  right.  What  are  the  ways  that entropy  is  leaving  that  control  volume? Name?  Andrew.  Andrew?  Yeah,  we have  Mass  leaving. Okay,  so  we  have  an  MDOT, right  a  Mass  Flory, and  we  have  a  little  S  to  a  specific  entropy at  state  two. How  else  is  entropy  leaving? Heat,  right?  Name?  Z.  Zach. It's  always  nice  to claim  it  after  it  was  right. Okay,  right? So  that's  leaving. So  there  we  have  a  Q  out. So  we  know  some  heat's  leaving, but  that's  not  exactly  entropy  yet. Where  is  that  heat being  transferred  to,  right? So  we  have  a  reduction  in  entropy because  it's  leaving the  it's  leaving  the  system. And  where  is  it  going  to?  Surrounding,  right? Yeah.  So  we  have  here  a  Q out  that's  then  divided by  excuse  me,  a  T  zero. And  how  is  entry  P  coming  in? So  the  other  fluid. So  basically,  you  have  also  an  dot, and  that's  times  S  one  there. Cool.  So  we  can  rearrange  this? We  just  go  dot, then  S  two  minus  one  plus  this  Q  out divided  by  T  and  T  zero. And  this  is  our  dot  dot  gen will  look  like  that.  Mm  hmm. If  I  divide  both  sides, so  I  need  to  think  carefully  about  this. Hold  on.  M  dot. This  also  has  an  M  dot. I  apologize.  I  apologize. This  should  be  plus  dot  times  that. And  then  therefore,  dot should  also  be  there  because  this is  per  kilojoules  per kilogram  and  then  per  kelvin. So  this  is  the  same  units  of  little  S, and  that  also  needs  to  multiply  it  by  dot. All  right.  Boo  boo.  Okay. We  can  write  this  in  little  S  notation. So  if  I  divide  both  sides  by  dot, little  dot, what  I'm  going  to  be  able  to  write, maybe  I'll  put  it  up  here  is  that little  Gn  is  then  equal  to  two minus  one  plus  Q  out  divided  by  T  zero. And  the  definition,  this is  something  I'm  going  to  tell  you  now. So  this  is  informational,  and  then we'll  come  into  the  meaning of  it  in  a  second. But  the  connection  between  entropy generated  an  energy  is  the  following. Little  X  destroyed  destroyed  is equal  to  little  S  Gen times  what's called  the  dead  state  temperature, essentially  the temperature  of  the  surroundings. The  temperature  when  everything  else has  gone  to  equilibrium. All  right?  Not  heat  death  yet. Okay.  But  T  zero  there. All  right.  All  right. And  so  how  do  we  get  to  SGN? So  we  know  S  two. So  if  we  followed the  Pi  color  approach,  right? I  could  get  little  S  two  from  that, right  from  knowing  state  one. Little,  I'm  sorry, little  S  two  from  knowing  state  two, Little  S  one  from  knowing state  one  Q  is  given, and  T  zero  is  also  given  as  the surrounding  the  surrounding  temperatures. So  we'd  call  T  zero  equal  to T  T  surrounding,  right? What's  another  way  that  we  could  get  to this  change  in  entropy across  a  nozzle  for  air? If  I  know  the  temperature  and I  know  the  pressure  at  the  inlet  of my  nozzle  and  I  know  my  temperature  and the  pressure  at  the  outlet  of  my  nozzle, is  there  any  formula  we  can  use  for an  ideal  gas  to  compute the  difference  in  the  entropy? Yes,  please.  Name? Nat.  Something  like  that. CPDT  would  be  the  change in  enthalpy,  though,  right? So  CD  is  what  I  had  there. Other  name?  Brian. That's  incredible.  I  don't remember  from  shorthand,  but  it  sounds. So  it  won't  just  be  that  because  I  have changes  in  temperature and  changes  in  pressure. But  the  formula  you  want  to  be  looking  up  are the  so  called  TDS  relations,  right? Remember,  we  derived  this. So  we  had  TDS  relations that  we  derived  from  the  first  law, and  we  made  assumptions about  the  changes  in  internal  energy being  right  CV  dt  and  so  on  and  so  forth. And  the  point  is  that  we were  able  to  relate  changes  in entropy  to  changes in  temperature  and  pressure, pressure  and  volume, specific  volume  and  temperature,  okay? So  if  you  look  at  the  TDS  relations, you  could  also  follow  that  approach for  an  ideal  gas  to  compute  that. Again,  totally  valid  approach,  right? Okay.  And  he's  going  to  look it  up  later  for  you  all  and remember  the  second  half  of the  formula.  Questions  about  this. Okay,  so  that's  exergy. That's  pretty  much  it.  All  right. So  this  is  the  destruction  part  of  it, but  we  can  also  get into  into  the  other  parts. But  this  is  really  then  the  link  of the  entropy  generation  and ultimately  exergy  analysis. And  I  would  consider  this  analysis to  be  a  modern, basically  a  modern  thermodynamic  analysis. So  if  you  think  about  where  things are  and  why  is  it  modern? For  devices  like  this, kind  of  the  performance  is  maybe  obvious. Like,  you  look  at  that  and  you  think,  okay, that's  kind  of  faster,  that's  slower. But  the  energy  systems nowadays  are  a  lot  more  hybridized,  right? They're  a  lot  more  hybrid,  okay? They're  more  complex,  and  as  a  result,  why? Why  are  they  more  complex?  They're  more complex  because  we  receive  the energy  intermittently. Nothing  is  steady,  right? So,  you  know,  we  have day  and  night,  we  have  seasons. One,  Two, we  use  our  energies  at different  times  for  all  sorts  of  things, buildings,  you  know,  cars, you  know,  manufacturing, so  the  loads  are  complicated. And  so  you  end  up with  these  complicated  systems, and  being  able  to  say  what  is  the best  is  not  obvious,  okay? So  what  you  need  to  do  is  you  have  to come  up  with  a  framework  where,  again, you  kind  of  treat  and  rank energy  forms  equally.  Heat  and  work. You  can  put  on,  you  know, essentially  the  same  conversion  there,  right? The  same,  let's  say, quality  in  a  sense  to  them. And  this  is  what  exergy  does,  right? It's  a  way  of  being  able to  say  that  I  can  compare apples  to  apples  and  not  apples  to  oranges. The  first  law  is  tells  you things  are  apples  to  apples, but  it's  not  true. The  second  law  tells  you that  work  and  heat  are  different, and  what  EG  tries  to  do  is to  correct  for the  fact  that  they're  different, that  heat  is  worth  less  than  work,  alright? Good.  Alright,  let's  go  in,  though. Do  I  want  to  do  this  example yet?  I  could.  Yeah. Let's  do  this  one,  and  then  I  can go  through  some  definitions. So  the  context  of  this  is  that  here  we  did this  for  a  steady  flow  analysis  of  a  nozzle, a  system  I  really didn't  spend  much  time  with  before. And  what  I  want  to  do  now is  the  entropy  generation and  the  exergey  destruction then  of  this  system,  right,  a  closed  system. And  with  these  two,  you  will  have enough  seen  enough  examples  there to  kind  of  tackle  both  types of  systems  when  it  comes  to  exergy. All  right. I  also  have  to  say  that I  really  like  the  textbook. I  really  like  the  textbook, except  for  this  part. So  if  you  read  the  textbook  and they  do  this  analysis, I  find  it  downright  confusing. So  what  I'm  going  to  do today  is  an  example  that  they  have, but  like  my  way  in the  way  I've  taught  you  before,  okay? And  if  you  come  to my  office  hours  and  you  tell  me, I  don't  get  why  the  book  did  it  that  way, I'm  not  going  to  my  answer  is  going  to be  do  it  this  way.  Do  it  my  way. Okay,  so  what  do  we  have  here? So  we  have  our  favorite  piston,  okay, that  contains  water  at 100  degrees  C.  We  have  heat. We  draw  our  boundary  here. The  piston  is  kept  at constant  pressure.  And  it's  being  cooled. So  there's  some  amount  of  heat  that's transferred  out  between  state two  and  state  one, and  this  heat  is transferred  to  a  surroundings, which  is  25  degrees  C.  T surrounding  here  is  code for  dead  state,  okay? So  you  have  your  dead  state  temperature, which  is  here. All  the  rest  of the  terminology  you've  heard  before, water  means  no  ideal  gas. You're  gonna  use  Pikere.  Condensation  here. So  as  we  transfer  heat  out, some  of  the  water  is  condensed. That's  code  four  isothermal,  right? I  said  it  was  isobaric. That's,  you  know, the  system  allows  you  to  do  that, but  phase  change  processes  are both  isoberic  and  isothermal. So  the  constant  temperature there  is  going  to  mean  that, like,  you  know,  maybe  that's  useful, okay?  This  work  transfer. So  because  he's  being  transferred out  and  the  pistons  moving  down, works  being  transferred  in,  okay? A  keyword  here  is  frictionless. What  do  you  think  frictionless means  for  this?  What's  that  code  for? Okay,  I'm  going  to  start  on  this  side. A  brave  soul  in  the  back  there, Paris.  Reversible. Yes.  Okay,  reversible. And  when  I  have  a  reversible  system, okay,  but  the  thing  is  that I  have  heat  being  transferred  out. So  when  I  have  heat  being  transferred  out  of a  system  where  I'm reversibly  doing  work,  what  did  we  call  that? So  it's  like  the  work  transfer  process is  isotropic, but  there's  a  change  in  entropy due  to  heat,  okay? So  I  have  heat  being transferred  out  of  that  control  volume, so  I  have  a  change  in  entropy, but  I  have  no  change  in entropy  associated  with  the  work  process. So  the  word  reversible  is  in  it. I'm  going  to  make  you  all  read  the  book. I'm  going  to  have  a  lecture,  and it's  going  to  be  reading  time,  all  right? You're  going  to  have  free  choice and  there's  going  to  be one  choice  internally  reversible,  right? So  what  formula  do  I  write when  I  have  something that's  internally  reversible? Oh,  man,  ds  is  equal  to  dq  divided  by  T, right?  Internally  reversible,  okay? Why  do  I  do  this?  Why  do  I  care  about  this? The  whole  reason  why  we  do  that  is  because if  the  work  transfer  process  is  isotropic, I  can  determine  the  change  in entropy  of  that  only with  heat  transfer,  right? So  we  write  all  of  this  because not  because  I  like  letters, you  know,  I  love  letters, but  I  don't  write  all  of  them. I  wish  we  had  more.  I  don't  write all  of  that  because  I  want  to. You  do  that  because  then  I  can compute  changes  in  entropy only  with  the  heat,  okay? The  other  part  that's  like  code  in this  problem  is  these  isothermal, when  we  do  the  integration, it's  going  to  make  this  very  easy,  right? I'm  going  to  be  able  to  integrate this  and  take  the  temperature  out. So  a  process  like  this  that's isothermal  makes  that  a  very  easy calculation  in  terms  of  a  change in  entropy  of  this  control  volume,  all  right? Okay,  so  with  that  setup, Let's  dive  into  it,  right? So  we've  already  drawn  our  schematic. I  don't  need  to  indicate  anything  else  there. It's  a  closed  system,  so  no  mass  in  or  out. The  properties, if  we  needed  to  determine  them, if  we  needed  to  determine  them, we'd  use  PiKLor. And  this  problem,  actually,  we  don't  need  to because  we  know  the  initial  temperature, we  know  the  final  temperature. And  for  this  type  of  calculation, I  don't  need  to  know  things  like enthalpy  and  internal  energy  there. So  there's  enough  information  from  that. It's  quasi  equilibrium,  all  right? We  have  no  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. All  right?  The  only  kind  of  work  we're having  here  is  this  internally  reversible, um,  you  know,  compression, which  is  here,  and  we  have  heat lost  heat  loss  to  the  surrounding. Do  do. Okay,  so  I'm  not  going  to  start with  an  energy  balance here  because  I  do  not  need  to.  All  right. For  other  problems,  you  would  need  to, you  probably  would  need  to determine  a  final  state. Here  I  know  the  final  temperature, so  I  don't  need  to  do  that. So  I'll  simply  start  with an  entropy  balance  for  a  closed  system. Entropy  balance  for  a  control  system  is equal.in  minus  S  dot  out plus  dot  gen  is  equal  to the  change  in  the  entropy of  that  control  volume, which  I'm  going  to  call  as  Delta  S  system. All  right.  We  have  no  change  of  mass,  right? There's  no  mass  in  or  out  of  that,  okay? This  is  the  trick  to  this  problem,  okay? So  if  you  start  down this  and  you  draw  it  for  that, just  a  single  control  volume,  good  luck. You're  going  to  have  to  do  weird  stuff. So  what  I  recommend  doing, and  this  is  essentially  what  the  book  does is  that  we'll  have  our  piston  and  the  piston. So  our  piston  cylinder  device. I'll  draw  one  control  volume, which  in  this  case  contains the  water.  All  right. And  then  I'm  going  to  draw  another,  right? So  I  have  heat  being transferred  to  the  surrounding. And  the  other  control  volume that  I'm  going  to  draw  is essentially  the  part  of the  surroundings  that  gets  heated,  okay? So  I  would  go  here  and  do  something  weird, or  maybe  I'll  draw  a  control  volume, which  looks  something  like  this,  okay? Yeah,  maybe  it  looks  like  this,  right? So  I'll  have  something  that looks  like  that,  right? And  this  should  trigger  a  response  in  you. The  fact  that  I'm  drawing two  control  volumes, one  where  heat's  being  lost, and  another  where  heat  is  being  gained. Does  anyone  remember  what exercise  I  did  for  that? I  took  a  hot  piece  of  iron  and I  dropped  it  into  cold  water,  okay? Every  single  quiz  and  midterm  I  have  ever given  has  had  an  entropy  generation  problem and  an  entropy  change,  okay? And  they  all  look  something like  that.  All  right? So  here,  I  have  something  hot, entropy  he's  being  transferred  out  of  it. That  means  entropy  is  decreasing, and  then  heat's  being transferred  to  something  else, and  the  entropy  is  increasing. And  because  this  is  hotter  than  this, the  net  change,  right? And  so  heat  being transferred  out  of  something  as  hot  as a  smaller  change  in  entropy  than  heat being  transferred  into  something at  a  lower  temperature, which  will  have  a  higher  one  because  it goes  by  one  over  T,  okay? So  this  is  the  trick. You  basically  draw,  All right,  maybe  I  need  to  do  it  right. So,  like,  you  basically  draw  a  second, right,  control  volume  around  the  first  one. What  the  book  calls  this  part  of  it, the  book  calls  this,  like  a  boundary. Allright?  I  don't  know,  like  a  boundary. So  they  draw  some  boundary, and  they  say,  okay, then  somehow  the,  you  know,  the  heat, and  blah,  blah,  blah.  I  prefer  precision. So  for  me,  I'm  going  to draw  control  volume  of  the  water, and  then  I'm  going  to  draw a  control  volume  around this  piston  cylinder  where the  heat's  being  transferred into  it,  all  right? Okay.  Super.  Now,  all  right. Um,  overall  change, right?  So  the  overall  change. So  if  I  talk  about  this  as, you  know,  we  can  talk  about  this maybe  as  the  water, and  we  can  talk  about  this  one  as the  surrounding, just  like  we  did  before,  the  change  in the  entropy  of  this  combined  system,  right? So  Delta  S  system, which  is  essentially  this control  volume  of  water plus  this  control  volume of  the  surrounding,  right, is  equal  to  the  change  in the  entropy  of  the  control  volume, plus  the  change  in the  entropy  of  the  surrounding. So  what  you're  going  to  do is  you're  going  to  analyze,  right, the  change  in  the  entropy  of  the  water, and  then  the  change  in the  entropy  of  the  surrounding, just  like  we  did  before,  okay? And  the  formula  you're  going  to use  for  it  is  this,  right? The  work  transfer  process  is internally  reversible,  no  entropy  change. So  the  change  in  entropy  is  only dQ  divided  by  T because  it's  an  isothermal  process, that  T  comes  out  of  the  integral,  right? So  that's  just  going  to  be  Q  by  T,  right? And  essentially,  it's  the  same,  right? And  the  T  is  going  to  be  the  temperature of  the  water,  which  doesn't  change. And  then  the  other  one  is  going  to  be  the temperature  of  the  surroundings. Which?  What  assumption  do  you think  you're  going  to  make  the  surroundings? So  I'm  going  to transfer  heat  into  the  surrounding. What  do  you  think you're  going  to  treat  it  as? Thermal  reservoir,  you  like life  being  easy,  and  me  too,  right? So  you're  going  to  transfer  in  it and  it's  going  to  be  a  reservoir. So  isothermal  water,  right? Constant  temperature  and thermal  reservoir,  constant  temperature. It's  going  to  be  like  a  cue by  minus  a  cube  by. Is  it  where  you're  headed. All  right.  So  we've  dealt  with  this. So  we  said,  Okay,  Delta  system, I  know  from  this  on my  way  to  determining  my  entropy  generation. Along  the  way  to  determining  that, we  can  first  determine  our  Delta  as  water, which  is  actually  what  we  need in  part  A,  okay? All  right.  And  so  this, we  can  write  it  explicitly as,  right,  the  integral, and  it's  going  to  be  the  integral  from  state one  to  two  of  dq, right,  divided  by  T  of our  let's  say  W  for  water. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  the  integral 1-2  of dq  divided  by  T  of  our  surrounding,  okay? All  right.  So  again,  our  Delta  system. All  right,  the  temperatures you  can  take  out  of  the  integral. Both  of  them  are  constant,  right? The  water  is  constant  because  it's only  part  of  the  water  condenses. That's  code  for  the  quality  changes, but  I'm  still  saturated, so  constant  temperature. All  right?  And  so  that's  going to  end  up  being  a  Q. So  we  have  a  Q  water,  right, divided  by  a  temperature  of  the  water, and  that  heat  is  being  transferred  out. So  what  sign  should  this  have? So,  you  know,  if  I  call this  QW  out  now  for  the  water, what  sign  would  you  put  here  to  indicate that  entropy  is  decreasing  in  the  water? Negative.  Negative,  right? That's  a  negative  you  put  there. Okay.  And  that'll  be  plus  the  Q surrounding  in  divided  by  the  T  surrounding. And  because  heat's  being  transferred into  that,  and  this  is  in, this  is  going  to  be  a  positive,  and that'll  indicate  entropy  is  increasing. Now,  I  said  before  I didn't  need  to  do  the  energy  analysis  of  it, but  the  nice  part  about taking  those  two  control  volumes, drawing  them  big  enough  so that  it's  adiabatic,  right? So  if  I  basically  draw  that surrounding  one  large  enough, there's  no  heat  in  and  no  work  into  it,  okay? There's  no  heat  and  there's  no  work  into the  combined  control  volume, just  like  with  the  hot  iron  and  the  water. And  so  what  that  means  is  that there's  no  change  in  the  internal  energy. The  net  result  from  the  first  law is  that  Q  of water  out  is  equal  to  Q  of  surroundings  in. That's  the  other  trick.  Again,  going on  that  previous  example  is  by, you  know, drawing that  other  control  volume  large  enough. Adiabatic,  no  work  transfer, no  change,  right,  no  change in  the  internal  energy  of  that. So  the  heat  that's transferred  out  of  the  water  must  be equal  to  the  heat  transferred into  the  surroundings,  right? But  you're  smart,  so  I  didn't need  to  do  all  that,  right? And  we  did  it  before. Okay.  Yeah,  so  the  overall,  like  I  said, so  this  is  your  right, this  is  the  change  in  the  system. We  know  it's  given  us  600  kilojoules. That's  100  degrees  Celsius converted  into  Kelvin,  okay? So  373.5. The  Qn  is  again  600  kilojoules, and  the  surrounding  is about  three  is  25  Celsius than  in  Kelvin,  right?  So  that's  done. All  right,  let's  come  back to  our  formula,  though,  right? So  the  other  right, when  we  did  our  analysis  of Delta  S  system  for  the  control  volume, that  was  equal  to  S  in capital  S  in  minus  capital  out  plus capital  G.  If  we  look  here, and  this  is  for  now,  right? This  is  for  the combined  control  volumes,  right? So  this  Delta  S  system  is the  green  area  plus the  boundary  area  plus  the  water. Is  there  any  entropy being  transferred  into  the  combined  system? No.  Is  there  any  entropy leaving  the  combined  system? No.  So  the  change  in  the  entropy  of the  system  then  is  nothing for  this  adiabatic  case. The  change  in  the  entropy  of  the  system  is equal  to  the  entropy  generated, which  is  then  our  part  B,  okay? So  Part  A  was  essentially determined  this,  which  we've  done. Part  B  was  determined this  Which  which  we've  done. All  right.  And  part  C  is  what  then? What  formula  do  we  write  then  for  Part  C? Next.  I  times. Yeah,  so  RX  destroyed  X,  X  destroyed  here. I  could  write  a  lot  destroyed is  equal  to  Gen, which  in  our  case  is  the change  in  the  entropy  of the  combined  system  times  T  zero, which  is  the  dead  state  temperature. T  zero  here  is  equal  to T  surrounding.  And  that's  it. So  my  numbers,  so the  change  in  the  entropy that  I  had  for  water, um  So  Delta  S  of  water  there. Where  did  I  put?  Delta  S  of  water  is  equal to  -1.61  kilojoules  per  Kelvin. The  Delta  S  of  the  system, which  includes  the  reduction of  the  entropy  of  the  water, but  the  increase  in  the  entropy of  the  surroundings  is  equal  to 0.40  kilojoules  per  Kelvin, and  then  our  Xrogy  destroyed  I  have  equal  to 120.6  kilo  joules.  Okay? So  this  part  was  not actually  in  the  exercise  in  the  book. These  can  be  validated  against  it. And  again,  the  way  that  I've  shown  this is  complimentary  to  the  way the  book  has  done  it, but  I  think  actually  is a  more  correct  way  to  do it  based  on  how  we've  been set  up  before  with  breaking this  into  those  two  parts. Namely,  the  reduction  of the  entropy  in  one  part  that's  cooled  and the  increase  of  the  entropy  of the  part  that's  heated.  Are  there  questions? Good?  Seriously?  All  right. Yeah,  and  again,  I  think the  key  insight  is  to  really  break it  down  into  two  and  then treat  them  as  one,  alright? Okay,  um,  Yeah,  so  in  general, if  you  encounter  a  new source  of  energy,  you  know, maybe  some  new  you  go up  the  Berkeley  Lab  and  you find  something  weird  and  warm  up  there, you  know,  you  want  to know  what  the  work  potential  is. How  much  energy  could  you  extract that  is  useful  from  it? The  answer  to  that  question  is  exergy. It  is  also  sometimes  called availability,  right? There's  different  names  for  it, but  it's  a  longstanding  goal. So  Gibbs,  when  Gibbs  was  doing  thermo, this  was  one  of  his  goals  was  to  figure  out what's  the  maximum  work I  can  get  out,  all  right? He  didn't  call  it  exergy. Or  available  energy  is  another  term. Um,  This  is  not like  the  properties  we've  done  so  far. So  if  you  want  to  define, let's  think  about  work,  right? If  I  wanted  to  define  work, right,  that  was  a  path  function. What  does  that  mean?  I  have  an  initial  state. I  have  a  final  state,  but that's  not  enough  to  specify  it. There's  a  path  to  it. I  could  have  reversible  paths. I  could  have  irreversible  paths,  okay? And  depending  on  the  path  that  I  take, I'm  going  to  get  different  amounts of  work  out  of  it,  all  right? Um,  Yeah,  so  in  analysis, what  we  do  is  we  specify  the  initial  state. And  that's  not  a  variable. So  that's  basically  a  given. And  the  work  output is  maximized  when everything  is  done  reversibly. It's  kind  of  an  obvious  statement,  right? I  do  everything  perfectly, and  that's  the  best. You  know,  not  exactly  like Berkeley  you  know,  you  know, you  know,  Berkeley  studentn't  get  that, like,  you  know,  essentially, but  that's  the  idea. So  you  maximize  it  when  everything  is done  in  a  reversible  way. And  the  system  must go  to  a  dead  state,  right? So  if  I  think  about  potentials,  You  know, if  you  think  about  like,  you  know, what  would  be,  you  know, the  maximum,  you  know, work  out  of  a  turbine, it's  when  the  pressure  difference across  it  is  highest,  okay? What  makes  it  a  high  pressure,  right? I  just  put  a  ton  of  heat  into  the  thing. I  make  it  really  high  pressure. What  makes  it  have  a  low  pressure, you  make  it  cold. And  that's  what  you  do,  right? You  take  river  water  or  you  think,  you  know, lake  water  or  whatever,  and  you run  them  through  the  condensers. That's  how  you  ensure that  the  steam  is  condensed  and kept  cold  and basically  the  lowest  pressure that  can  be  done. And  you  can't  really  go below  the  dead  state,  right? You're  rejecting  heat  you  know, in  those  examples  of the  rivers  and  the  lakes and  that  or  the  oceans, right,  you're  rejecting  that  into the  park  that's  the  lowest  temperature, right? And  that's  your  your  dead  state, a  right  Okay. Um,  And  so  what  is  a  dead  state? I  mean,  in  a  sense,  you  know, it's  like  trying  to define  what  is  dead,  okay? So,  like,  a  dead  state here  is  if  you  look  at  your  surroundings, the  way  that  I  think  of it  is  like  equilibrium. If  I  let  everything,  you  know, in  here  kind  of  come  to  equilibrium, and  then  I  measure the  temperature,  the  pressure, and  the  specific  volume, those  would  be  the  dead  state,  right? So  the  dead  state  in  Berkeley  is different  from  the  dead  state  in Chicago  right  now,  for  example. I'm  getting  pictures  from  my  in  laws. It's  cold,  you  know?  It's  like, so  there  it's  different,  right? But,  you  know,  for  your  system, that's  essentially  it. In  general,  for  oxygen  analysis, and  for  the  purposes  of  this class,  your  dead  states, unless  it's  otherwise  stated, 25  Celsius  in  1  atmosphere,  right? And  the  system  will  have no  X  org  when  it's  reached  that  state. So  along  the  process  in  your  system, if  you  measure  your  temperature  or pressure  and  you're  at that  state,  you  are  dead. You  are  at  the  dead  state.  There  is no  difference  in  a  Delta  T,  right? So  heat  transfer,  there  is  no  difference in  pressure  to  drive  a  turbine,  right? That's  the  idea.  Okay. So  what  does  that  mean? So  just  like  when we  did  the  analysis  today  for the  steady  flow  system that  was  open  and  for  the  closed  system, right, we  write  write  things a  little  bit  differently. The  energy  for a  closed  system  looks  like  this. So  what  is  it?  It  is  internal  energy, okay?  I'll  start  with  this,  right? So  we  have  internal  energy. You  have  specific  volume, and  you  have  the  entropy,  right? And  let's  say  velocity  in  potential  energy, but  these  we  really don't  deal  with  too  often, you  have  internal  energy, specific  volume,  and  entropy at  some  state,  right? And  what  you're  driving  towards, is  a  dead  state. So  these  are  all  subtracted by  their  counterparts  at  the  dead  state. So  you  have  the  internal  energy  at, let's  say, 25  Celsius  in  1  atmosphere,  specific  volume. At  25  Celsius  1  atmosphere, the  pressure  there,  the  temperature  there, and  the  specific  entropy. And  let's  say  if  there's a  dead  state  velocity, whatever  that  means,  you  know, think  maybe  zero,  okay? Or  a  dead  state  at  height. Again,  maybe  the  ground. All  right,  in  that,  okay? So  we'll  work  more  with  it. I  know  I'm  killing  you  with,  like, introducing  new  things,  but  it'll  make  sense. We'll  do  some  examples,  and  I  promise. And  if  it  doesn't  make  sense, then  don't  do  it  this  way. Just  do  entropy  generation.  All  right. For  an  open  system,  again, just  like  when  we  went  from  closed  to  open, instead  of  dealing  with internal  energy,  right, we  went  to  enthalpy  because  we  wanted  to take  we  wanted  our work  term  to  be  shaft  work, and  so  we  put  the  flow  work  in. It's  the  same  thing.  So  the  energy  then is  for  a  flow  system. So  the  flow  can  possess  an  energy. That's  the  enthalpy  at  that  state, the  entropy  and  the  velocity and  let's  say  the  height, and  then  it's  minus  its  dead  state  parts. This  is  pretty  useful. So  this  formula  is  used  then,  you  know, I'll  do  an  example  next  time and  data  center  analysis, how  you  do,  like an  exergetic  analysis  of  that  there. But  the  flow  Eergey in  this  way  is  actually  something that  is  used  and  we'll use  we'll  use  a  lot  next  time. Okay. Now,  all  right. So  that's  kind  of  just  definition. I  said  before  that  one  point of  Extra  G  is  to  be  able  to rank  heat  and  work  to compare  apples  to  apples when  it  comes  to  heat  and  work. The  way  that  you  make  heat, you  convert  heat  transfer into  Extra  G  is  the  following. I  take  Q,  and  I  times  it  by this  one  minus  T  over  T.  What  does a  one  minus  T  over  T remind  you  of  in  this  class? In  efficiency.  What  efficiency? Who  said  it?  Name? Ad.  Yes.  It  looks  a  lot  like  Carn,  okay? And  that's  the  whole  point  of  Carnal, right?  Karal  was,  right? Work  out  divided  by  heat  in  is  equal  to one  minus  the  cold  temperature divided  by  the  hot  temperature. All  I've  done  here  is  I've  said,  essentially, let's  say  maximum  reversible  work is  equal  to  the  heat, let's  say  transferred  in  times one  minus  the  cold  temperature, which  is  what? Dead  state  divided  by the  temperature  from  which it's  coming,  all  right? And  this  is  how  you  rank  heat. You  think  like  Carne  and  I  can  now  with  this, I  can  say,  Hey,  now  I'm  able  to compare  apples  to  apples  with  it. You  think  about  something  like  the  sun,  okay? The  sun  is  very  hot  with  like  5,800  Kelvin. This  would  be  an  approximate  formula for  the  sun.  Don't  get  me  started. But  the  point  is  that,  you  know,  you  know, even  300,  you  know, divided  by  5,000  is  a  small  number,  right? So  for  transferring  heat from  the  sun,  that's,  like, a  very  high  quality  of  heat, right,  it  has  a  very  high  energy. It  has  very  high  work  potential associated  with  it,  right? Sadly,  at  the  moment, we  waste  a  lot  of  it,  right? So,  but  that's  it. So  this  is  how  we're  able  to rank  make  him  there. If  we  look  at  it,  so  if  you  were  to  say, and  we'll  do  this,  we'll  talk  about, you  know,  we'll  have some  steady  flow  of  system. We'll  have  some  heat and  work  and  mass  coming  in. That  overall  will  constitute an  energy,  right, a  rate  of  energy  transferred  in, there  will  be  some  energy  that's transferred  out  in  the  form of  heat  work  in  mass. A  lot  of  times  maybe  it's  heat  in, heat  and  mass  that  are  in, and  a  bit  of  heat  out and  hopefully  a  lot  of  workout. And  in  that  process,  if we  have  irreversibilities, there  will  be  energy  destruction. And  the  point  is  from  an optimization  point  of  view, that's  something  you  would  like  to  minimize. You'd  like  to  minimize the  destruction  of  that. Okay,  so,  inevitably, the  question  that  will  come  up  to  me, is  this  on  the  quiz? It  is  not.  However,  I  will  say  two  things. The  first  is  that  it's  on  the  homework. Yes,  and  there  will  be  maybe more  of  it  in  Module  three, because  I  love  this  stuff,  and  it's  useful. For  the  thermodynamic  project, because  this  is  a  modern  analysis, this  may  prove  useful. If  you're  interested  in more  sophisticated  things, you  know,  it  can  be  helpful. If  this  is  something  you  want to  go  into  into  the  future, if  energy  and  that  type of  stuff  something  you  want  to  do, learn  it.  Like,  learn  it. I  have  a  lot  of  notes  and  stuff. I  teach  energy  conversion  principles. Let's  use the  data  center  class  next  semester. We'll  be  using  things  like  this in  that  class. It'll  tell  you  things  like  waste  heat. So  if  a  process  and  to  produce  heat. Literally, all  of  the  problems  we have  today  is  that  we  have data  centers  that  are  giant  toasters,  okay? They're  great  and  making  toast, but  they  also  make  things  warm,  and we  don't  do  anything  with  that  heat. If  you  do  extrogen  analysis, you  can  assign  an  economic  value, not  just  like,  Hey,  it's  useful, but  you  can  do  conversions based  on  the  temperature  of your  heat  and  turn  that  into dollars  and  then  go  to  someone  and  say, like,  you  should  do  this. This  is  sensible,  okay?  And  make  money. Get  a  job  and  make  money,  okay? Yeah,  so  we'll  get  into this.  There  are  a  lot  of  examples. You  can  read  about  these  things  again. I  can  talk  about  it. You  can  read  it  there, but  it's  not  just  this. So  with  that,  you  can define  exergy  destruction. You  can  say  what  exergy  is. I'm  going  to  close  it.  I  have got  like  1  minute  up  here  for  questions, and  then  I  got  to  go  get  my  wife,  okay? Thank  you.  Have  a  great  weekend.
