I'm  also  quite  curious what  this  is  going  to  look like  on  the  recorded  video  in  the  night  here. All  right.  So  now,  right, so  that  we  talked  about  reservoirs. We  talked  about  this  kind  of,  like, single  expansion  of  a  piston  doing work  with  an  with  an  with an  ideal  gas  there  that  was not  inconsistent  with  Calvin's  statements since  we  didn't  just  have  heat  into  work. We  also  had  a  change  in the  volume  from  state  one  to  state  two, but  now  we're  going  to  start to  connect  some  of these  more  thought  experiments with  real  concrete  systems. And  the  first  type  that's very  important  are  what  are  called heat  engines.  What  is  a  heat  engine? So  it's  an  engine  which  is  here. I  mean,  we  draw  it  as  a  ball. I'll  show  a  real  example in  the  next  slide  here. But  you  have  an  engine  here. On  one  side  of  it, you  have  a  high  temperature  source. That's  a  high  temperature  source at,  let's  say,  TH, and  you  have  a  low  temperature  sink, which  is  at  some  temperature. You  know,  usually  it's  thrown  at  TL. You  have  some  heat  that  you're transferring  in  some  work, the  network  that's  transferred  out. And  in  order  to  make  this  work to  make  this  thing  actually  work, you  need  to  actually  transfer heat  out  of  the  system,  okay? So  just  like  I  said  before, thought  about  this  experiment, we  transfer  heat  in,  you  get  some  work. But  if  you  want  to  keep doing  that  over  and  over  again, you're  going  to  have  to  have a  cooling  step  to bring  it  back  to its  initial  state  to  start  over. Right?  It's  not  intuitive. I  understand  that.  Like,  I've  had my  PhD  students  also ask  me,  Time,  why  don't  we  do  this? We  just  put  heat  in?  Yeah,  Of  course,  fine. But  also  you  have  to  take  heat  out,  right? So  you  have  that,  so  you  have  the  heat  in, the  heat  out,  and  and  the  workouts. So  it  receives  this  heat from  a  high  temperature  source. It's  converting  it  usually into  something  like  shaft  work. So  this  is  like  a  model  for  a  power  plant. So  that  thing  that  you're spinning  is  a  shaft, that  shaft  is  connected  to  a  generator, that  generator  makes  electricity. And  that's  why  we  have lights  on  in  this  room. Okay.  Well,  some  lights  on  in  this  room. He  got  to  reject the  remaining  amount  of  heat. Where  do  we  reject  that  too? We  reject  it  to  the  environment. So  that  I  don't  know,  I  don't  know. I  don't  recall  in California  seeing  it  a I  grew  up  in  the  Midwest. I  grew  up  in  Illinois.  Illinois  was known  for  among  other  things, the  Manhattan  project. We  did  nuclear.  Of  course, they  did  a  lot  of  that  stuff  here. But  there's  a  lot  of  nuclear  power  plants. So  we  got  a  lot  of  these  cooling  towers. So  these  big,  gray  things  where  sometimes it  looks  like  a  bunch  of  smoke  is coming  out  of  it.  That's  not  smoke. That's  water  vapor,  that's condensed  into  droplets  and  it's  clouds, and  that's  where  you're  rejecting  heat. You  can  also  reject  heat  into  rivers. It  can  be  done  into  oceans, and  all  of  that  is  used  to  cool steam  that's  coming  out  of the  back  end  of  a  turbine. And  again,  these  things all  operate  on  a  cycle. That's  the  key  insight. So  what  does  it  look  like? So  again,  the  You  know,  for  now, I  mean,  you  know,  we're  going  to  transition, you  know,  to  more  sustainability and  sort  of  weaning  ourselves. Off  of  it.  But  the  reality, even  in,  like,  where  I  was  in  Europe, 50%  of  all  electricity  there  was  still generated  in  2017  with a  coal  fired  power  plant, which  looks  exactly  like  this. You  take  water, you  compress  it  with  a  pump  that  goes  into what's  called  a  boiler.  You  take  something. It  can  be  sunlight,  it  can  be coal,  it  can  be  whatever. You  burn  it  or  you  concentrate  that  heat. You  boil  the  water,  right? So  that  water  gets  to a  really  high  temperature and  a  high  pressure, so  you  vaporize  it, get  it  to a  high  temperature  and  high  pressure. You  send  that  into  a  turbine,  right? So  first,  it  goes  into  this,  like, really  narrow  part, and  then  as  it  passes  through, it  causes  these  fans  to  spin, it  expands,  transfers work  out  to  the  generator. Now  you  have,  out  of the  back  end  of  there  still  steam,  right? Usually  at  a  usually at  a  lower  temp  well  lower pressure  and  maybe  lower  temperature. And  then  you  condense  that. You  condense  that  into what's  called  a  surface  condenser. So  imagine  this  is  like  a  bunch  of  pipes. So  you  have  like  1,000  pipes,  okay, like  all  next  to each  other,  on  the  inside  of  them, you  take  water  out  of  a  river, you  send  it  through  the  pipe. Then  you  put  it  back  into the  river  into  it  and on  the  outside  of  those  pipes, you  you  condense  the  steam, which  is  coming  out  of  the  back  end of  that  turbine. So  then  your  liquid  here  is  a  liquid, saturated  liquid,  and  then you  send  it  back  into  the  pump. There  It's  interesting  to  know that  process  of  actually cooling  that  condenser. Does  anyone  want  to  hazard  a  guess how  much  water  we  take  out  of  the  ground every  year  as  a  percentage of  all  the  water  that  we  take  out  of the  ground  to actually  cool  surface  condensers in  the  US?  Oh. One.  Say  it  O  more  time. 60.  Someone  said  20. So  if  we  took  the  average of  it,  it's  not  far  off. 50%  of all  the  flipping  ground  water  we  take  out  in a  year  goes  through  something  that looks  like  this  and basically  back  into  the  ground. At  the  end  of  it, that's  not  consumption,  right? It's  out  of  the  ground  and  then it's  back  into  the  ground. That's  fine.  70%  of all  the  water  that  we  consume in  a  year  actually  goes  into  agriculture, right  California  feeds  the  world,  right? So  a  lot  of,  you  know,  this. But  it's  interesting  to  know  because these  things  come  into  conflict. This  is  called  the  water  energy  nexus. So  we  have  energy  who needs  water  at  some  point. We  have  water,  which  we  need  for  drinking. Sometimes  it's  called water  energy  food  nexus, but,  like,  all  these  things  come  together. And  really,  it's  that  device. It's  the  surface  condenser. And  yeah,  that's  literally  by entire  line  of  research is  looking  at  doing  this  stuff, understanding  it  better  and  how  we  do it  more  efficiently.  Okay. Anyway,  so  these  four  components within  this  control  volume. So  if  I'm  not  talking  about  river  water coming  in  and  cooling  the  condenser, if  I'm  not  talking  about  how the  fuel  comes  into  heat, I  just  have  heat  in,  I  have  heat  out, I  have  work  in  for  my  compressor, I  have  workout  for  my  turbine. We  can  treat  that  as  a  closed  system, because  at  this  scale, the  water  is  not  leaving, assuming  no  leaks,  whatever. And  you  closed  systems  undergoing  a  cycle. Remember,  we  started  in  one  state, another,  another,  another, just  like  being  on  a  track, you  need  to  get  back  where  you  started,  okay? At  the  beginning.  So  with  the  first  law then  we  have,  you  know, we'll  have  no  change,  you know,  in  that  cycle,  right? So  what  you  have  to  say  is that  the  workout  is  equal to  the  heat  in  minus  than  the  heat  out. And  so,  you  know, again,  the  point  is that  this  heat  out,  we  need  to  do  it. You  need  to  transfer  it  out,  and  it represents  kind  of  a  wasted  heat, but  we  would  love  to  use  it. But  it's  just  not  at  that  high temperature  like  we  had  before. So  you're  getting  an  insight  that energy  also  has  a  quality. It's  not  just  conserved,  but  it  also  has a  has  a  quality. And  it's  also  never  zero. So  the  point  is  that,  you  know, the  net  work  that  we can  transfer  out  is  always  less than  the  heat  that  we  transfer  in. And  with  these  terms  now  defined, we  can  talk  about  actual  efficiency. We  can  talk  about  an  actual  honest to  God  proper  efficiency, which  is  here  and we  write  with  the  Greek  letter  a, A,  which  is  the  ratio  of  the  network  output. So  the  shaft  work  here, divided  by  the  total  heat  input. So  that's  W  net  out,  divided  by  Q  in. So  we  can  rewrite that  diagram  that  I  showed  before. Again,  now  we  have that  high  temperature  reservoir at  a  temperature  TH. The  point  of  the  reservoir  is that  TH  won't  change, even  if  I  transfer  heat  out  of  it. And  we  call  the  heat  transferred  QH. We  then  have  the  heat  rejected, so  that's  QL  rejected  to the  low  temperature  reservoir  at  TL, and  then  we  have  the  W  net  out  here. Because  I'm  drawing  arrows,  right? Because  I'm  indicating  arrows and  directions  of  where  things  are  going, we  are  treating  these  things  as  magnitudes. A  vector  is  something that  has  magnitude  and  direction. I've  given  you  the  direction. So  these  are  just  know,  again, this  is  these  are  not  vectors, but  in  an  analogy  with  the  vector, you  have  a  magnitude  and  direction. I'm  giving  you  the  direction  of  heat transfer  and  work  transfer. So  these  quantities  are  treated as  positive,  okay? So  rewriting  a  W  net  is  then  the  Q  from the  high  temperature  minus  the  Q from  the  low  temperature  reservoir. And  if  we  divide  both  sides  by  Q,  QH,  right? The  definition  of  ETA  was the  workout  divided  by  the heat  in,  so  that's  there, and  that's  equal  to  one  minus  the  heat transferred  to  the  low  reservoir, divided  by  the  heat  transferred  from the  high  temperature  reservoir. And  some  like  actual  values. So  after,  like, 120  years  of  research  into  the  diesel  engine, that  was  like,  one  of the  first  rationally  designed  engines, those  things  are  close  to  40%  efficiency. So  that's  like,  you  know, chemical  basically  your  chemical  energy in  that  sense  is  is kind  of  like  your your  energy  input  and you  have  to  work  output. The  normal  automobile  engine  close  to  25%. And  these  large,  really  large  steam  power plants  because  they  are really  highly  optimized, there  can  get  up  to  60%. But  the  take  home  message  from  that  is  like 100  and  whatever  years and  lots  of  money  and  investment, and  that's  like  your  number. So  you  still  lose  40%  of  this, and  that's  necessary  in  order  to  do this  cycle  to  be  able  to do  this  cycle  and  to  keep  going, it's  a  necessary  evil  there. I  May  be  interesting  to  think  about  there, what  was  actually the  first  steam  engines  look  like. If  you  want  to  think  about  what engineering  progress  look  like, you  can  look  up  what  that  value  was, and  maybe  that  helps  you  appreciate what  60  actually  looks  like. Making  that  more  concrete. Again,  here,  you  can't run  the  cycles  with  that  heat  rejection, so  you  get  a  reservoir  at  100  degree  C, transfer  it  in,  you  do  some  PV  work  out. You  have  to  bring  that  back down  to  the  initial  state. In  order  to  do  that,  you  have  to transfer  some  heat  to  the  reservoir. Again,  that's  boundary  work, but  it's  straightforward  to imagine  if  that  was  a  shaft  work  example. Um  two.  Coming  back to  in  an  environmental  context of  where  we  reject  all  this  heat  two. This  is  what's  called  a  Sanky  diagram. This  is  a  diagram where  they're  really  weird  to  read, but  they're  left  to  write, so  you'll  left  to  write. And  the  width  of that  stream  there indicates  more  of  something. Here  you  have  left  to  right, fresh  water  at  the  source, so  that  could  be  groundwater, river  water,  whatever, and  you  have  saltwater  at  the  source, so  that  can  be  like  the  ocean,  the  sea. And  then  you  can  look  where  it  goes. So  this  comes  out. Most  of  it  goes,  you  know,  to  some  user. Quite  a  lot  of  it  is  heading  towards, you  know, the  agricultural  sector,  the  public. But  you  see  here, the  number  that's  even  bigger than  the  agricultural  consumption  is  that, you  know,  the  majority  of  the  water  is passing  through  a  thermoelectric  power  plant. So  that  means  like  team  power  plant, like  the  things  that  you  see. And  of  course,  we're  not consuming  that  in  a  sense,  right? You  take  it.  It  passes through  the  surface  condenser, and  then  it  goes  back  into  the  ground or  into  the  river  where then  perhaps  it  might  be  used, you  know,  in  agriculture. So  that's  the  discharge  part  of  it. And  then  here  in  agriculture, that's  actually  consumed  because plants  undergo what's  called  transporation,  right? They  like,  lose  water  vapor, they  evaporated,  or  use it  in  growth,  as  well. But  that  part  about  the  discharge,  right, that  water  is  no  longer  at  the  same temperature  right  that  it  came  in  with. So  that  water  is  warmer,  right? You're  putting  that  back  into  an  environment, and  that  also  has  consequences. So  if  you  start  to  heat  up  river  water, I  mean,  just  like  being  for  us,  like  at  home, it's  not  as  pleasant  to  sort of  probably  stay  in an  environment  that's  too warm  and  these  things  can  have, you  know,  damage  and  impact  from  it. And  it's  not  at  some  tiny  scale. Like,  it's  at  a  scale  of  like  all  of our  water  that  we  use, or  like  most  of  it  is  at some  point  doing  something  like  that. Okay.  I  hope  you're  sufficiently  motivated about  steam  power  plants  in  the  dark  here. Okay.  So  the  other  systems where  we  look  at  you  know, this  analysis  with  the  reservoir there  for  what's  called refrigerators  and  heat  pumps. The  latter  of  which  is,  you  know, how  like  the  current  US  plan for  decarbonizing our  heating  residential  and commercial  heating  sectors  is  this. You  take  in  a  nutshell, you  take  electricity,  you run  a  compressor  or  a  pump. You  take  some  fluid, it's  called  a  refrigerant. You  bring  into  a  high  pressure and  a  high  temperature. You  reject  that  heat. So  you  reject  that  you  transfer  heat  there at  that  high  temperature into  some  surroundings. If  it's  in  your  you  know  you  have  what  are called  what  are  they  called  air  heat  pumps? So  you  call  air  heat  pumps, or  you're  more  or  less, rejecting,  let's  say,  heat, you  know,  into  the  environment. Then  we  go  through  that  expansion  valve, remember  that throttling  valve  I  talked  before, where  we  have  a  sudden  expansion, and  then  therefore  trading  off, PV  for  an  internal  energy. So  this  gets  really  cold.  And  then you  can  cool  some  process. That's  how  it  looks  like  in an  air  conditioning  system, that's  more  or  less  how  your  refrigerator  is, so  that  would  be  your  home. That  would  be  the  outside. What's  interesting  about  these  systems  for, let's  say,  using  them  is when  you  use  them  in  reverse. So  if  you  run  them  in  reverse, you  can  actually  take  you  can  transfer  heat. Let's  say  from  a  cold  outside. This  is  going  to  sound  weird. You  can  transfer  heat  from  the  outside  when it's  cold  into  the  inside  of  your  home. And  what's  really  cool  about this  is  that  when you're  transferring  heat  like  that, one  unit  of  electricity consumed  here  in  work  might equal  three  units  of  heat  transferred from  the  environment  into your  home  and  vice  versa. All  right?  And  that's  really  key. That  tells  you  exactly  why  you  would  not do  joe  heating,  like  a  resistor. So  if  I  had  electricity  and I  had  a  joul  resistor, I  could  heat  the  air  in  my  home  or  the  water. That  makes  sense,  right? That  makes  sense,  and  I  would  do  it. But  this  is  like  a  way  where,  you  know, you  can  take  energy  that,  you  know,  you  know, you  can  take  and transfer  thermal  energy  from  the  environment, you  know  outside  and  get more  bang  for  your  buck. And  the  bang  is  like  a  factor  three. So,  this  isn't  like some  60%  thing,  45%  thing. This  is  like  we're  talking  factors of  difference  there. All  right.  We'll  go  more  into  that  there. But  again,  you  sort  of set  up  the  problem  in  the  same  way. You  have  some  thermal  reservoirs. You  treat  this  done  as  a  close  system  there, and  we  do  some  analysis. And  there, we  won't  talk  about  efficiency  because efficiency  of  300%  doesn't  make  any  sense. We  call  that  coefficient  performance. Okay.  All  right. Bringing  it  home,  you  know, here,  I'm just  going  to  give  you  some  examples. So  the  other  thing  about the  second  law,  again, about  the  sort  of temperature  differences  that  we  were saying  about  the  tendency  of  things  to  flow. So  again,  this  is  this  sort of  video  with  the  balloons,  right? You  have  something  at  high  pressure and  there  and  you  release  it, and  you  know,  they  move. Believe  it  or  not, this  video  was  made  at  MIT. I  find  it  like  hilarious  that an  MIT  professor  is  making  videos  like  that, so  great.  They're  nice  videos. You  can  learn  a  lot  from  these  links  there. This  is  that  food  dye  example, for  those  of  you  who  have never  played  with  food  coloring. I  do  this  on  the  regular. You  put  it  in  there  and  then  you  can watch  it  diffuse  there. Then  there's  the  thermal  example where  here  they  take  a  pan. They  put  it  really  cool. It's  called  thermochromic  liquid  crystals. These  are  things  that  change color  depending  on  the  heat. You  see  here  it's  really  hot, and  then  you  put  it  out  and  you  let  it  cool and  you  see  it  change  color  and  you  transfer. So  again,  talking  about  things  that happen  spontaneously. So  if  it's  something  that  can  happen, it's  something  that's  going  to be  following  the  first and  the  second  laws  of  thermodynamics.
