Sorry?  This  Friday?  That  can't  be  true. Where  do  you  see  that?  Just  so the  dates  are  off  or  what? Real. Yeah,  we're  moving  on  to  the  next  thing. Onto  the  next  one,  man.  Onto  the  next  one. Okay,  I  get  310. Well,  311,  so  I'm  going  to  get  started. So  as  I  mentioned,  we're  going  through  now  g. So  we're  not  going to  assess  this  on  the  mid  term, but  it  could  be  part  of  your  project and  part  of  your  homework  there. So  listen  up  to  whatever  degree you  think  is  appropriate  on  that. Today,  we're  going  to  do  some  analysis so  it's  a  lot  of  problem  solving  today. Hopefully  examples  that  then  are  useful. So  we're  going  to  do  erg  analysis to  a  heat  exchange  or  a  turbine, and  then  with  those  two  parts  together, hopefully  with  a  power  plan. Before  I  get  into  what  I  mentioned before  that,  you  know, where  I  used  to  work,  we  used  to have  a  supercomputer  there, and  they  would  take  the  waste  heat off  of  it  for  the  building  heating. This  is  what  one  of  the  server  racks or  the  blades  that  basically went  do  the  server  look  like. So  here's  the  inlets  and the  outlets  with  the  water. And  what  you  can  see  in  the  picture here  is  where  all  that  copper,  right? So  this  end  here  of this  is  exactly  what  this  position  is. And  then  this  is  then  run  over  to essentially  the  hot  spots that  exist  within  that. And  so  somebody  told  me  it  look relatively  old. I  don't  know  how  to  take  that. I  take  it  personally.  In  that. But  anyways, that's  an  example  then  of,  you  know, how  doing  sort  of xergy  analysis  can  then  lead  to some  rethinking  about  how  we  use  the  energy. And  ultimately,  in  that  case, where  we  were  before,  the  building was  essentially  carbon  neutral,  right? Because  then  you  don't  have  to  use the  waste  heat  or, you  know,  use  other  heating methods  for  the  building. So  anyone  wants  to  look  at  that. That  dinosaur  is  at the  front  there.  All  right. Although  it's  a  dinosaur,  we have  tremendous  challenges  with  it, so  that's  why  I  give  a  thermal  project  on  it. So  the  first  one  I  like  to  start  with  in this  sexologis  is  with  the  heat  exchanger. So  I've  already  set  up. The  whole  system  with  which the  context  of  what this  heat  exchanger  exists  in. So  we're  told  about  a  refrigeration  system. So  just  to  remind  you  how refrigeration  system  looks  like, you  have  a  compressor here,  you  transfer  work  in. This  goes  through  a  condenser. So  usually  this  is  some  kind  of  a  vapor. You  compress  that,  it  goes  into the  heat  exchanger.  That  condenses,  right? So  you're  rejecting  the  heat out  then  to  the  hot  side. In  this  case,  we're  rejecting  it  to the  environment  at  25  C.  So  typical, you  then  go  through  a  throttling. Element  here.  So  you have  a  big  pressure  drop  across  this, and  then  you  get the  liquid,  essentially  the  liquid ready  to  boil  there,  right? So  condensation  and  evaporation  are the  key  points  of  why  this  is, you  know,  such  an  efficient  mode of  transferring  heat. So  then  you  evaporate  here. This  then  takes  heat in  right  from  the  cold  side, and  then  it  continues around  the  process  there. So  I've  written  a  couple of  the  details  about  it. So  we're  told  about  the  pressure  and the  temperature  entering  the  condenser. So  that's  after  the  compressor, entering  the  condenser. We're  told  the  mass  flow  rate. Is  a  steady  system,  right? So  we're  going  to  have  the  M in  and  the  out  being equal,  being  equal  here. And  then  we're  told  what  the  state  or the  properties  are  at the  exit  of  the  condenser, namely  that  there's  no  pressure  drop across  the  heat  exchanger. That's  a  typical  assumption  we  have, and  that  the  quality  of the  refrigerant  is  a  saturated  liquid. So  X  two  is  then  00  there,  right? Um  Yeah, And  so  if  we  want  to  figure  out  for  part  A, so  what's  the  rate  of  heat rejected  to  the  condenser? So  what  we  can  do  is  we  can  draw a  control  volume  around the  single  element,  right? And  I'm  not  drawing  it around  the  whole  system,  right? So  hopefully  it's  seen  from  the  exam  two, we're  starting  to  pair  up  you know  elements  and  series. And  when  you  want  to  analyze the  performance  of  one  part  of  the  system, right,  you  got  to  focus  on that  individual  part  first,  right? So  we  have,  in  this  case, with  our  control  volume, right  we  have  a  mass  that's  coming  in, we  have  a  mass  out. We  assume  steady  state  behavior, right  or  DDT  zero, right  the  M  dot  is  equal  to  our  dot  out, which  is  equal  to  the  M  dot. Another  important  part  about this  is  that  we're  not  the  rate  of change  of  energy  within the  control  volume  for  a  system like  this  is  zero,  right? So  I  think  there  was  also some  misunderstanding  about  that. So  you're  going  to  be  writing  e.in is  equal  to  e  dot  out,  right? And  the  reason  for  that  is  that  the  DE  CV  DT, the  rate  of  energy  change in  the  control  volume  is equal  to  e.in  you  know, minus  e  dot,  and  that  EN  minus  E  is  equal  to, Delta  E  CV,  which  is, then  equal  to  Delta  U  plus Delta  K  E  plus  Delta  P,  right? We  don't  use  this  for the  open  systems,  right? We  use  the  rate format  because  if  you  did  this, what  you  would  essentially  have is  that  the  EN  is  the  E  out, but  all  this  stuff  is in  is  in  the  rate  format. So  you  just  basically would  have  this  is  this, but  then  you'd  have  to convert  it  into  the  rate  format anyways  because  we  have  dots and  Q  dots  and  W  dots  there,  right? So  we  start  with  this.  This  goes  like  that, and  then  you  have  that  formula. There  And  the  way that  we  can  transfer,  of  course, energy  is  our  Q  dot  n  plus w  dot  n  plus  m.in  this  case, I'm  going  to  do  the  notation  of one  plus  W  one  square divided  by  two  plus  gz  one  is equal  to  q  dot  plus  w plus  two  plus  W two  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  two. W  neglect  kinetic, And  potential  energy  effects  here. We're  don't  expect  big  changes. In  fact,  they're  going  to  have huge  changes  in  enthalpy,  right? Because  there's  a  condensation  process with  winds  so  the  enthalpies  will  dominate. Heat  exchanges  don't  have  work  transfer, right, work  transfers  out,  SAC,  right? And  there's  heat  leaving  the  system,  right? We  don't  have  heat  that's  coming  in,  right? So  then  Q  dot  out, which  is  going  to  be  the  answer  for  part A  is  equal  to  m  dot, their  H  one  minus  H  two. Does  that  make  sense? Yeah,  if  I'm  transferring  heat  out, I  would  expect  that  the  hop  of  my  fluid coming  in  should  be  greater  than at  the  exit  point. So  that  makes  sense  to  me. Right?  So  if  the  dot  given the  H  one,  you  can  determine. So  if  you  launch  that,  you  can  open  up into  cool  prop  with  the  fluid, so  our  fluid  here  is a  common  refrigerate  known  as  R  134  A. So  we'll  look  up  the  properties  and  we  can get  the  H  one  based on  the  pressure  and  the  temperature  there. And  because  we  know  that P  two  is  equal  to  P  one, and  we  know  the  quality  there, we  also  know  the  H  two. And  I  have  in  my  notes here  that  it's  about  after substitution  9.98  kilowatts  as my  value  for  part  A. Okay.  Good.  Yeah,  should start  to  feel  automatic  with  that,  right? So  we've  got  a  part  there. For  part  B,  we're  told,  okay, compute  the  coefficient  or performance  of  this  refrigeration  cycle. If  the  cooling  load at  these  conditions  is  6  kilowatts. So  the  cooling  load  here means  in  refrigeration  speak, that  the  heat  that's being  transferred  in  right into  the  system  right  from  the  cold  side. So  here,  this  is  we're  told  this  is six  6  kilowatts  there,  right? Clear.  All  right. So  you  have  that  there. And  because  we  know  the  heat  out,  right? And  we  know  the  heat  in.  Maybe  just sorry  that  I'm  going  back  and  forth  so  much. Right?  So  if  we  know  the  heat out  and  we  know  the  heat  in, if  we  want  to  figure out  what  the  COP  is,  right, the  COP  for  a  refrigeration  cycle,  right? Is  the  ratio  of  the  thing  that  we  desire. The  thing  we  desire  is  the  q.in  here,  right? So  this  q.in  here, you  know,  divided  by  the  penalty. And  the  penalty  in  this  case, right,  is  our  ww.in. So  the  q.in  we're  given, but  the  W  dot  we  don't  know,  right? We  could  figure  it  out  though. We  could  draw  another  we  could  basically draw  another  control  volume  here. So  we  draw  another  control  volume,  right? Around  this  whole  thing. All  right,  we  could  say  that. And  if  it's  a  steady  state,  right? So  what  is  transferred in  must  be  equal to  what's  transferred  out,  right? And  so  what  we're  transferring in  to  the  control  volume  here  in  terms of  energy  is  that  for  the  green. So  for  the  green  CV  here, the  green  control  volume. So  my  e.in  is equal  to  my  e  dot  out  because  it's  steady. All  right.  And  so  my  e.in,  is  my  q.in, my  work  in,  w.in, and  then  I  have  my  Q  dot  out. And  so  if  you  rearrange,  right, the  Wt  is  nothing  but  the  Q  dot out  minus  the  q.in,  right? So  a  question?  Is  it  clear? Okay.  Good?  Okay. If  something's  not  clear,  just  interrupt  me. Okay,  especially  if  I  have  my  back  to  you. So  we  have  with  that. So.  So  we  have  the  Q  dot which  is  9.98  kilowatts. Right?  That's  minus  then the  six  kilowatt  load,  right? So  then  we  have  3.98  kilowatts  as the  W  in.  All  right. Um  So  if  we  not  come  to  our  COP, or  COP,  then,  if  we substitute  our  values  or  our  q.in,  again, 6  kilowatts,  divided  by  the  W, which  is  3.98  kilowatts, and  I  have  in  my  notes  here  that this  is  1.5,  right? For  the  COP.  Yes. So  so  efficiency.  They're  kind  of, like  I  mean, how  to  answer  this  in  the  right  way. They're  both  kind  of  the  same  thing,  right? So  in  the  sense  that  you  have  the  ratio on  top  of  the  thing  you  desire,  right? Divided  by  the  thing  you  must  put  in. So  it's  a  little  bit  like  an  ROI, right,  a  return  on  investment. You  know,  in  a  sense,  I  put,  you  know, what  I  get  out,  you  know,  for  what  I  put  in. It's  just  that  inefficiencies,  right? Were  as  you  know,  zero Right? Greater  than  equal  to zero  less  than  equal  to  one, and  COPs  are  always greater  than  or  equal  to  one. I  think  I'm  pretty  sure. I'm  pretty  confident  I'm definitely  confident  about  the  first  one, and  I'm  pretty  sure  with  the  second  one that's  true  as  well. And  again,  just  to  take  it  a step  further,  usually  with  efficiencies, what  we're  dealing  with  is  engines,  right? So  you're  thinking  about  I'm  putting maybe  some  heat  in  and I'm  getting  workout,  right? So  we're  typically  calling  those, like  thermal, you  know,  thermal  engines. And  in  the  case  of  COPs, you're  usually  dealing  with  pumping  heat, right? So  what  we  call  heat  pumps, you  know,  heat  pumping. So,  right,  in  this  case, you're  putting  some  work  in  to,  like, move  some  quantity  of  heat  from  there  to, like,  another  location  with  it. Alright,  that's  as  best  as  I can  do  without  stepping  on  some, you  know,  land  mines  and  being  wrong. Okay.  That's  divided  by. I  would  start  it  the  other  way. I  would  say  that,  first  of  all, when  you  think  COP, think  refrigeration  or  heat  pump. That's  the  first  thing  you should  think  about,  right? Because  the  ratio  here  is  going to  be  heat  transferred,  right? In  the  case  of  refrigeration, it's  the  heat  transferred  at the  cold  side,  right? Divided  by  the  work you  put  into  the  compressor, in  the  case  of  the  heat  pump  right? You're  more  interested  in the  Q  dot  out,  right? That's  where  you're  pumping heat  from  the  cold outside  into  your  home. And  again,  it's  the  same thing  the  penalty  is  still aw.in  in  that  case,  right? Whereas,  if  you  think  about efficiency,  right  ETA  here, if  you  think  about  a  thermal efficiency  of  ETA,  right, this  is  going  to  basically  be  the  W  dot  out, let's  say  have  a  turbine  divided  by  the  q.in, let's  say,  from  the  heat from  a  boiler,  for  example. Do  that  make  sense?  Okay,  Sam. The  ratio.  One  more  time.  Sorry. Ratio  for  the  one  Yeah,  exactly. That's  it,  right?  So  the  three  is  you move  three  units  of  heat,  right? Let's  in  this  case,  into  the  control  volume, which  is  the  refrigeration. In  the  case,  the  heat  pump  you're  moving three  units  of  heat  out  of that  system  into  your  home  there for  some  amount  of  work  transferred into  the  compressor. Okay. I  wanted  to  say  something  else  and  I  forgot. Okay.  Other  questions  about  this? Clear?  Sam?  Just  for  a  system. So  it's  for  refrigeration. I'm  saying  in  for the  purposes  of  this  course, we're  talking  about  a  heat  pump or  a  refrigeration  cycle. And  I  think  that's the  only  time  we're  using  COP. Yes,  please.  Name?  Meghan. Okay.  I'm  now  going  to  tread  carefully, but  I  believe  for  most  cases  here, it's  usually  divided  by  WN  Y  because  that's what  you  need  to  put  in  to  drive  it,  right? If  we  look  at  this  system  here,  right. So  we  have  a  W.  We're  doing  heat  transfer. We're  doing  throttling. We're  doing  heat  in  and  back. Yeah.  And  so  in  this  case, I  believe  that  yeah,  for  this  course, it's  always  going  to  be  a  Wt  N  or a  WN  that's  in  the  denominator. Okay.  Max?  Yeah  usually  the  deficiency. So  this  is  important.  It  is  not  work. It  is  not  work  in  the  case  of  this. What  can  change  though,  right, is  that  this  is  the  COP  of  a  refrigerator. All  right? Right?  Because  that's  what  we  desire, desire  the  cooling  load and  the  freezer  and  whatever. The  COP  though  for  a  heat  pump. My  question  to  you  is,  you  still  have  the same  W  dot  N.  It's  the  same  system. But  what  is  the  which  term  cute dot  out  or  cute  dotN  do  you desire  then  if  it's  a  heat  pump. Cute  dot  out,  right? A.  And  that's  simply  because  that's  right, you're  transferring  it  to the  warmer  side  that  would  be your  home  or  whatever  you  pump  into. Efficiency  usually  divided  by. So  it  is  a  thermal  engine. In  the  case  of  a  thermal  engine  here, this  is  like  the  definition of  the  efficiency  of  a  thermal  engine. So  I'm  taking  I  want  to  get  workout  for some  amount  of  heat  that  I'm  putting  in. You  wouldn't  normally  put work  in  to  get  work  out  there. Good.  Good  questions.  All  right. All  right.  So  now  this is  everything  I've  done  now  or everything  I've  done  here  is  something  we've done  now  in  class. Part  C  now  is  where  we  get  into  the  rate  of exergy  destruction  in  the  condenser. All  right?  And  when  we  think  about exergy  destruction,  right?  The Kind  of  like  the  reciprocal  property of  it  would  be  entropy  generation,  right? So  you  have  something irreversible  that's  happening,  right? So  you  have  something irreversible  that's  happening, and  heat  transfer  is one  of  those  things,  right? Heat  spreads,  right?  You  can't  bring  it  back. That's  an  irreversible  process, just  like  popping  a  balloon  there. So  what  we  can  do  for  Part  C,  is,  again, we  can  do  the  control  volume  analysis of  the  red  CV. Let's  talk  about  the  red  CV that  I  had  before.  Right? And  for  the  red  CV,  we  can  say, the  rate  of  change  of  entropy  within that  control  volume  is  equal  to  S  dot  n. These  are  big  Ss  BS  dot plus  the  entropy  that's  generated,  right? And  if  we  assume  that  it's  steady  state, like  we  said  before,  so  if  it's  steady, there's  no  change  of  entropy within  the  control  volume, everything's  in  balance. The  S  dot  n  then  is  equal  to s  dot  minus  S  dot  n.  A  right? Okay.  Alright.  So  how  is  entropy entering  the  system? Let  me  ask  it  another  way. How's  entropy  exiting  that  control  volume? Q  is  one,  right? So  we  got  a  Q.  So  we  got  some  Q  dot  out. That's  that's  happening  there. What's  another  way  that  it's  exiting? Howard?  I  want  to  see  temperature? So  that's  true.  So  we'll  stick  with  that. We'll  put  that  into  into  the  Q  box? Sic  expressor  with  a  higher  pressure. Yeah. So  now  you're  getting  into  the  fluid,  right? So  based  on  about  the  fluid that's  coming  in  and  out  exactly. So  here  we  have  the  Q  dot  out. So  to  Howard's  point, have  the  Q  dot  out  that's being  transferred  to  the  environment,  right? Is  the  Q  dot  out  to  the  environment. So  the  temperature  that  you  have there  is  T  zero,  right? We  transfer  that  out  to  the  reservoir  that  is our  home  or  kitchen  or  whatever  there,  right? And  this  is  then  plus,  the  dot, the  mass  flow  rate  in  of the  entropy  that's  leaving. So  we  got  a  little  S  two,  right? That's  the  fluid  stream  that's leaving  it  minus,  right? The  entropy  that's  coming  in,  right? So  that's  the  rate  of  generation  there. And  if  we  want  to  convert  this into  x  erg  destroyed, we  have  one  simple  formula,  right? So  the  rate  of  x  erg  destruction is  equal  to  S  gen  S  dot  n  times  T  zero. All  right.  Yeah.  And  so the  dot,  we  know,  right? So  we  know  the  M  dot  that's  given. The  S  two  and  the  S  one, these  are  determined  from  properties. Again,  you  can  refer  to  that  there, but  it's  known  because we  know  everything  about the  state  entering  one and  the  state  exiting  two. The  Q  dot.  We've  also determined  over  there  in  the  first  part, and  the  T  zero,  we  know,  right? And  so  if  you  put  that  all  together,  right? So  this  is  the  s  gen,  This  can  go  into  here. If  you  substitute  and  solve, what  I  have  here  is  a  rate  of  erg  distraction of  99.8  kilowatts  or  watts, 99.8  watts  there. Alright?  Cool. So  that's  one  way  that  you  can  do  it. The  other  way  that  you  can  look  at  it  is to  do  the  control  volume  analysis with  any  other  markers? No.  Where  you  do the  control  volume  analysis  of  the  red. So  again,  we  stay  with  the  red  C  V  here. Stay  with  the  red  CV.  And  when  you  do an  alternative  C  solution  here. So  you  could  say,  k,  the  rate  of change  of  erg  within  my  system, right,  is  equal  to, let  me  say  it  this  way,  right? We  have  the  rate  of  change  of  the  erg  within the  control  volume  is  equal  to  the  x.in, minus  the  x  dot  out, and  then  minus, that's  different  than  the  plus, but  minus  then  the  X  dot  destruction. Um  there. An  individual  capital  X  dot  is by  definition  for  a  single  stream  in,  right? So  we're  going  to  have  work,  transfer  in, which  is  the  highest  in  or  out, that's  the  highest  that  x  org  can  be. The  next  is  we  have  heat. We  need  to  correct heat  because  work  and  heat  are  not equivalent  to  x  erg  heat  unless  it's at  a  very  high  temperature.  That's  one  minus T  zero,  it's  the  environmental temperature  divided  by  t, the  temperature  of  your  fluid. That's  then  your  Q  dot, and  then  plus  dot  times  Pi  or  C  there. And  just  to  remind  you  then with  this  is  like,  you  know, think  like  the  M  dot that's  coming  into  the  control  volume, carry  enthalp  can  carry velocity,  potential  energy  there. This  is  a  corrected  version for  that  in  XG  balances,  right? So  C  here,  is  by  definition,  in  this  case, equal  to  R  H  minus  H zero  minus Ts  the  environmental  temperature,  entropy, little  S  minus  little  S  zero plus  one  half  times  velocity squared  minus  velocity  zero  squared  here, and  then  this  is  plus  g  times  z  minus  z  zero. In  the  book,  what  they assume  is  that  this  is  zero, and  that  the  ground  state  for  z  is  also  zero. So  you'll  see  there  it's just  W  square  divided  by  two, and  then  g  z  when  it's  in  the  book,  right? Yeah,  so  we  can  substitute this  whole  formula  here  into x  and  the  x  because  it's  a  steady  process. This  one's  going  to  go  away. So  that  part's  going  to  go  away. Oh,  that's  bad. Okay.  We'll  zoom  out. Full.  Alright.  Um,  That's going  to  be  a  nasty  one  to  substitute  though, because  if  I  write  it  low, you're  not  going  to  be able  to  see  it. So  maybe  I  will  do  the  following.  All  right. So  again,  if  we  put  this  into  here and  then  this  into  here  and  we  rearrange, what  you'll  have  then  is  that  the, the  rate  of  G  destruction is  equal  to  this  goes  to  the  other  side. Well,  x.in,  so  our  Xt  in  is the  W  dot  at  the  W  n plus  the  q  dot  n  times  one  minus  t  zero divided  by  t  plus  the  dot  of  h  minus  zero, hp  minus  t  zero  times  S  minus  S zero  there  That's  the  in. That's  basically  our  in  term. And  we  can  subtract  this then  from  our  out  term, W  plus  our  Q  one minus  t  zero  divided  by  T.  In  this  notation, what  I'll  say  is  that  this  t  here, I'll  just  call  and  this  t  here, I'll  I'll  call  j. And  that's  plus  an  M  dot. And  we  can  call  this  the  n  two, H  two  minus  o  minus  t0s2  minus  S  zero, close  brackets.  Good.  Okay. And  we  can  eliminate right  so  we  don't  have  work. Right?  There's  no  work  transfer  in this  problem  here  within  the  heat  exchanger. We  don't  have  any  Q,  right? So  we  have  Q  basically, we  have  Q  out, so  that's  going  to  go  away. This  stays  and  this  stays  here. The  Q  dot  out  or  if  the one  minus  t  zero  divided  by  the  tj. This  is  equal  to  t  zero. That's  where  you're  transferring  it  two. So  this  means  that  the  heat  that  we  transfer out  is  essentially  worthless,  right? We're  like  losing  this  heat to  the  environmental  condition. And  so  an  XRG  analysis, it's  going  to  be  one  minus  t zero  divided  a  t  zero. What  it  means  is  that this  term  is  not  valuable. It's  gone.  And  then we'll  hang  on  to  then  the  dots, the  H  two,  and  the  S  two. There. The  other  part  that's  going  to  go  away  is then  all  of  these  zeros, I  have  an  zero  minus  and  zero. This  is  gone  S  zero  minus  and  S  zero. This  is  also  gone. So  then  your  x  rate  of  x erg  destruction  is  then  equal  to m  times  one  minus two  minus  t0s1  minus  S  two.  Right. And  again,  if  you  go  in  and  you substitute  the  values  the  dots  known, H  one  and  H  two,  we know  from  the  property  values. T  zero  is  given,  S  one  and  S  two, you  would  also  know  til  the  value that  I  have  in  this  case, has  then  the  same  as  I  have  again, 99.8  watts  for  the  RG  destruction,  right? Good.  Questions? J.  So  it's  just  that,  you  know, here  we  could  be,  for  example, in  TJ  here,  right,  we're transferring  heat  out,  right? And  so  this  is  the  temperature  of,  you  know, in  this  case,  the environment  that  we're  transferring that  heat  out  to,  right? And  then  TI,  you  know, in  this  case,  that  would  be  the  temperature, let's  say  that  you're  transferring the  heat  into from  let's  say  that  environment  there. No. No.  So  you  could think  of  scenarios  where  you're transferring  the  heat  to something  that's  warmer  than  the  environment. And  what  do  you  think  then happens  then  to  the  value  of  that  heat? If  I  transfer  it  to  something that's  at  a  temperature  warmer  than the  environment?  All  right. So  I'm  telling  you  here  if  you  take  heat  and you  transfer  it  out  to something  that's  at  room  temperature. I'm  telling  you  in this  analysis,  it's  worth  nothing. Right?  Not  even  pennies.  It's  worth  nothing. Alright?  If  on  the  other  hand, I  say  that  it  is  greater than  the  environmental  temperature,  right? So  if  I'm  transferring  heat  to  something, an  object  that  has  a  temperature that's  greater  than  the environmental  temperature, what's  the  value  of  that  quantity? Will  it  be  zero  or  no? That's  my  first  question. So  if  I  say  that  TJ  is  greater  than  T  zero, Is  that  quantity  going  to  be  equal  to  zero, greater  than  or  less  than  zero? Greater.  So  in  X  rag  analysis, that  means  that's  good. Alright?  Yeah. And  that's  the  whole  point of  that  device,  right? You  take  the  heat  off  the  chip into  water  that's  not  at  room  temperature. You  pump  in  hot  water.  So  when  you transfer  the  heat  out  ygetically, it's  still  useful,  and  you  could use  that  ten  heat  of  building. Other  questions,  next? Yeah.  Less  than  I think  if  it's  less  than it's  just  basically  becoming the  new  environmental  temperature  there, right? So,  that's  the  dead  state. So  if  the  system  when  you  look  at  it, you  look  at  the  conditions where  you  have,  right,  you  know,  in  general, the  lowest  zero, zero  that's  there  and that  constitutes  the  dead  state. Yeah.  Sure.  Yeah.  But  I suppose  what  you're  saying  is  you  can think  of  scenarios  where maybe  it's  valuable  to  be colder  than  the  environment  that's  there, and  you'd  want  to  come  up with  a  ranking  system for  that,  I  suppose. Yeah. Maybe  I  can  think  on  that. All  right,  Emilia?  How  you like  you  transfer  if  you're say  transfer  that happened  temperature  trans  Yeah. So  maybe  I'm  being  unclear. I'm  gonna  try  to  make  this  real  clear. So  in  a  scenario  like  that,  what  I'm  saying is  I  have  this  object  here, right  at  some  temperature. And  then  the  environments  at  T  zero,  right? And  what  I'm  telling  you  is  that this  temperature  T  of this  object  is  greater than  the  temperature  of  T  zero. Right?  And  what  I'm  saying  is  I  transfer  heat now  from  this  object  Q  out, or  let's  say  it's  the  rate  of  heat  transfer out  of  this  object to  the  environment  there,  right? So  there  is  definitely  a  difference in  temperature  with  this  one being  higher  than  this  one, so  you  can  have  heat  transferred  there. If  they  were  the  same, there  would  be  no  heat  transfer. Is that I'm  going to  do  my  best because  I'm  not  sure  if  I  got  it. So  T  zero  is  air,  right? This  is  a  reservoir,  right? T  zero  is  the  dead  state. This  is  like  your  environment. This  is  where  like  all  the  heat generated  from  friction  or  whatever. It's  all  lost  to  that. As  soon  as  you  put  heat  into a  reservoir  like  this,  it's  useless. Right?  It's  gone.  You  don't  have  anything. If  you  want  to  read about  this  and  make  it  home, you  can  read  about the  heat  death  of  the  universe, because  that's  actually  what  happens. We  all  end  up  at the  dead  state,  and  it's  over. And  so  that's  T  zero,  right? So  you  basically  transfer into  that  and  then  there's  no longer  a  difference  in temperature  to  drive  an  engine,  right? So  then  ergetically,  that  heat's worth  nothing.  All  right. One  more  time  asking  me  again  your  question. So  TI  here?  TI  would  be  like, you  know,  if  I  was  going  to  say,  if  I want  to  come  back  to  an  example,  right? So  imagine  I'm  transferring heat  into  my  system. So  I'm  transferring  heat  in. And  then  this,  you  know,  for  example, could  be  my  TI  here, right?  It  could  be  transferring, You  know,  I  could  basically  be transferring  heat.  No,  let  me  get  this  right. Basically,  I  would  have  a  let's  say a  T  I  that's here  at  the  boundary here  and  then  I'm basically  transferring  you  know, the  heat  in  to  that,  right? So  I  could  have  that  coming  in  here. That's  probably  going  to be  a  higher  one,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  es entropy  that  I'm  bringing  in, right  because  the  T  is  higher and  then  here  it's  the  opposite. I  taking  the  Q  to  the  T  there. All  right?  Okay.  Good.  Yes,  please,  Sam. Yeah,  so  the  S  two  and  the  S one  are  like  any  fluid  stream, so  you're  comfortable  with  enthalpies. All  right. So  if  we  look  at  Where did  my  control  volume  go? Oh,  here  it  is.  Okay.  Right? So  I  have  a  fluid  that  comes  in, and  I  have  a  fluid  that  goes  out,  right? And  before  we  did the  analysis  of  the  control  volume, right  for  heat  and  work  and  whatever. The  property  that  we dealt  with  here  was  you  said,  Okay, this  fluid  can  carry  an  enthalpy in  and  an  enthalpy  out,  right? And  we  were  looking  then  usually  at the  differences  of  these  enthalpies  to  then, you  know,  understand  how  much  heat  or how  much  work  we  were  transferring  out  of  it. Just  like  that,  the  fluid  can  also carry  entropy  in,  right? And  that's  what  this  little  S two  is  is  that  that  fluid  possesses  entropy. It  can  carry  it  into  the  control  volume, which  is  then  S  one, and  it  can  also  carry  it  out,  which  is  S  two. No,  S  two  is  out. So  according  to  my  convention  here, right,  this  is  state  two  over  here. So  S  two  is  out,  right, which  is  why  it's  positive,  right? Mm.s2  is  like  this,  right? That's  your  a  portion  of your  s  dot  term,  right? And  then  your  S  dot  is  t  times  S  one,  right? So  the  entropy  entering  is  m  s  one, and  the  entropy  that's  leaving  is t  s  two  plus  t  divided  by  t  zero. A  C  dot  out  is  not  always  there, but  in  the  case  of  this  system, you  have  to  look  at  your  control  volume, and  you  have  to  see  how  so here's  your  control  volume. M.in  with  an  S  one. M  dot  out  with  an  S  two, M  dot  N  is  M  dot  out,  and I  also  have  heating  transferred  out. Whenever  I  take  heat  out  of  a  system, the  entropy  is  decreasing,  right? Of  that  control  volume,  right? Of  the  entire  universe, the  entropy  is  always  increasing,  right? So,  Yeah. That's  what  Klausi  said. So  Alright.  Good.  Sweet. So,  I'm  gonna  erase  this. Okay,  that's  good. That's  I  should  go  this  way. Rat.  All  right. To.  Touch. Oh.  Did  you? Yeah,  I  want  to  also  mention  for the  exams,  we're  86%  done. So  hopefully  by  this  evening, we've  had  a  chance  to  basically double  check  with  everything. And  then  if  all  goes  well, we're  gonna  upload  to  Cal  Central tomorrow  there. So  I  can  do  it  fast, but  if  I  do  it  fast,  you  also  won't  be  happy. So  you  don't  want  to  lot  of  trip  generation if  I  make  it  too  too  quick,  right? So  Okay,  good. Alright.  So  now  we  will  get  a  turbine. Alright.  As  an  example  here. It's  another  important  element. Let  me  All  right. So  we  can  have  an  adiabatic  turbine,  right? So  with  the  turbine, which  you  have,  is  you  have  some  M,  right. So  we  have  something  coming in,  something  coming  out. And  you  have  here,  right,  shaft work  that's  being  transferred  out. We  call  this  basically  state  one and  State  two  at  the  inlet and  and  the  exit.  Told  atiobaic. So  if  I  look  at  the  control  volume,  again, if  I  draw  control volume, With  this,  right? So  we're  called  adiabatic. So  no  Q  dot  is  zero in  Q  dot  out  is  also  equal  to  to  zero. Our  working  fluid  is  air. We're  basically  dealing  with  air. In  this  case,  P  one  is  equal  to  550. Excuse  me,  KPA,  and the  temperature  t14  25  Calvin, and  then  exiting  P  two. 110  KPA,  and  temperature  two  of  325. Calvin,  it  says  to  calculate the  second  law  efficiency  of  this  turbine, and  we're  told  that  the environmental  temperature. So  at  infinity  here,  the  reservoir  is 25  degrees  C  there. All  right?  What's  our  red. That's  our  control  volume.  There. All  right.  So  the  point  is that  the  second  law  efficiency. So  the  second  law  is  by  definition  equal  to, the  real,  let's  say,  like the  real  work  transferred  out. So  if  I  call  this  here  Wt, it's  equal  to  the  real  work  divided by  the  case  if  you  ran  the  system where  it  was  completely  reversible. You  can  also  write  this  with  dots, out,  so  in  Little  Dot, reversible,  where  my  cursive, It  says  units  of  kilojoules  per  kilogram, and  essentially  represents the  energy  work  energy associated  with  work  transferred in  ora  on  a  per  mass  basis. But  if  you  multiply  that  by  M  dot, you'd  have  kilojoules  over  second, which  is  kilowatts  and  is  then  your  work. So  what's  the  reversible  case. So,  again,  when  we  think about  the  reversible  case, that's  like  saying  that  I  take,  you  know, I  maximize  you  know, the  potential  of  all  of  this  initial  state to  produce  I  take  this  initial  state, and  I  produce  through  this  process, the  maximum  amount  of  work  out,  right? So  if  we  stay  with our  little  reversible  case. So  W  reversible,  then  by  definition  here, is  then  equal  to  our  ERG  in,  right? So  the  erg  and  a  Permas  basis  in  is  then by  definition  equal  to the  reversible  work  out,  right? Because  that's  the  whole  point  of  erg. We  define  the  state,  and we  define  the  initial  states  given, and  we  define  the  process  such  that  we  get the  maximum  work  work  out  of  it. In  this  case,  the  way  we  can write  this  is  we  can  say  this  is one  minus  zero  minus  t0s  minus  S  zero. There  for  the  little  x. You  can  go  either  to  like  book  tables  or  you can  use  the  cool  prop  function  that's  in there  to  take  the  temperature  or the  temperature  and  the  pressure  to get  to  get  your  enthalpies,  right? So  this  is  basically  determined  from  T  one, if  it's  your  book  tables, or  if  it's  cool  prop, it's  T  one  and  P  one, and  then  age  zero,  the  same,  right? This  is  T  zero,  or  if  it's  some  cool  prop, T  zero,  and  P  zero. If  you  want  to  ask  yourself  what's  P  zero, what  would  you  put  as  P zero  for  a  system  like  this? 1  atmosphere,  right?  Yeah,  exactly. So  your  P  zero  then  here  is  1  atmosphere, which  is  1o132  5  pascals  there. I  think  in  the  Bay  area,  we're  pretty close  to  that  value  with  it. And  so  all  you  do  is  you  just  plug  it,  right? You  can  go  in  and  get  the  same  properties  in the  same  way  for  the  two  entropies, and  what  you'll  have then  here  if  you  substitute  and calculate  is  166  kilos  per kilogram  for  the  revers  the  reversible  case. You  want  the  real  W  dot  out. You'd  also  then  have  to  determine the  H  two,  right? So  if  you  went  from  these  properties  here, you'd  be  able  to  determine  what  the  H  two is  the  actual  W  dot. So  the  little  W  out  then, just  for  expediency,  we  have the  fluid  coming  in  at some  enthalpy,  higher  enthalpy. It's  exiting  at  a  lower  enthalpy, and  it's  giving  you  the  work  out. So  all  this  is  is  H  two  or  H  one  minus  H  two. Yeah,  one  minus  H  two. And  now  with  this  known, and  then  also  with  the  reversible  case  known, you  can  go  back  and  substitute. And  so  your  second  law  efficiency  then, if  the  dots  are  constant, is  an  H  one  minus  H  two, and  then  divided  by your  H  one  minus  zero  minus  t  zero, S  one  minus  S  zero  there,  right? And  if  you  put  in  your  values, what  you'll  see  is  that  this is  60.6%.  All  right? And  so  what  does  that  60.6%  mean? Or  what  do  you  think  it  means? 60.6%  Exactly. Right?  So  you  would  have  then, you  know,  yeah,  exactly, 60.6%  of  the  ideal  case,  right? And  what's  the  ideal  case? What  we  call  the  ideal  efficiency here?  Jackson? You're  getting  out  every  year. Yeah.  Exactly.  And  there's,  like, one  name  pop  to  mind when  I  say  that.  Carno,  right? So  if  you  think  about,  then,  right, the  Caro  So  the  thermal  efficiency of  car  noo  for, you  know,  a  Delta  T,  like  that. So  the  T  one  and,  you  know, the  T  two  that  we  would,  you  know, have  there,  if  you looked  at,  like,  the  whole, you  know,  sort  of  analysis  with  it, you're  getting  up  to  basically into  something  like  that starts  to  resemble  something like  a  carno  there,  right? So  yeah. Okay.  So,  Sam? I  guess  I'm  trying  to  se. Yeah,  so  this  is  a  definition. So  this  is  important. It's  like  a  conceptual  thing  with G.  So  we  think, I  have  this  initial  state,  right? And  I  want  to  maximize  the  amount  of work  that  I  can get  out  from  that  initial  state. What  I've  described  there  is  by  definition, a  reversible  process,  right? Because  I'm  not  going  to be  generating  sort  of, you  know,  any  sort  of  entropy  with  it. And  so  through  that,  the  X  in,  again, by  that  description,  it  must  be equal  to  the  reversible  work  that's  out. You  cannot  get  any  more  work  out  you  know, of  a  process  like  that  than the  reversible  case.  Alright? And  that  is  then,  right?  Because  then conceptually  with  Rg, that's  the  whole  point,  right? I  start  with  this  initial  state, and  I  want  to  maximize the  work  out  from  that  initial  state. So  that  is  then  the  erg that's  coming  in  then,  right? If  you  got  all  the  work out  from  that  initial  state, then  that  would  be  the  reversible  work  case. Yeah,  I  think  the  book  does  a  decent  job of  going  through  some  of  that. Other  questions. All  right.  So  another  way  to  think about  this  then  with  the  efficiency, since  I'm  not  going  to  have time  for  the  next  one. Again,  when  we  think  about  then the  power  plant  case,  which,  you  know, would  be  nice  if  you  opened  and  analyzed  and analyzed  this  case  is that  for  the  case like  the  power  plant,  right? So  the  real  efficiency that  you  would  have  then, let's  say,  of  that  power  plant, would  be  the  second  law  efficiency that  we  analyzed times  the  right,  the  Carno  efficiency. So  the  carno  sets  perfection. You  can  do  no  better  than Carnot  starts  to  resemble  a  bit  of the  marathon  performance  in Chicago  on  Sunday. Unbelievable  time  there. So  that's,  like,  really  there. And  the  second  law  efficiency  says,  right, what  fraction  are  you  of  that  perfect  case? So  your  real  efficiency,  let's  say, of  your  thermal  engine, The  second  law  efficiency that  we  just  determine,  you  know, the  real  one  divided  by  the  reversible, and  then  times  that  is  one  way  that  I  like  to conceptualize  second  law  efficiency,  right? It  takes  you  from  the  reality  to the  sort  of  the idealized  between  there,  right? And  if  you  have  a  big, if  you  have  a  second  law, then  efficiency  of  100%, you  can't  do  any  better  than  that,  right? You've  reached  the  limit  of  what  you  can  do, right?  Any  other  questions? Okay,  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it, I  would  say,  open, like  I  said,  run  that  with  the  Rankin  cycle. And  then  Friday,  we're  going  to  start with  a  new  topic. I'm  up  here  if  you  have  any  questions. Thank  you. Thank  you.
