All  right.  I  got  210. I'm  going  to  get  started. Today  we're  moving  out  of power  cycles  and  into  refrigeration. Before  I  get  started,  that means  that  we've  closed  Module  two. So  it  means  you  have an  assessment  coming  Quiz  two. Please  see  the  quiz  two  page, your  reflexes  to  email and  contact  me.  I  love  that. However,  to  make  you  more informed  on  your  question  to  me  and the  GSIs  and  the  readers who  worked  very  hard,  read  this  page. I  promise  you,  90%  of  your  answers  are  there. Reservations, self  reservation  start  tomorrow. I  have  extra  office  hours next  week  at  lunchtime  in  the  I  room. And  I  recommend  you look  at  Module  two  review. So  there's  previous  midterms that  we've  done  in  this  class  that are  there.  We'll  keep  adding  them. And  just  to  remind  you, you're  expected  to  be  able  to  use the  Jupyter  Ab  Workspace  Module  PiCor. So  really  look  at  Homework  nine, see  some  stuff  in  there because  that's  an  expectation. It's  an  expectation  of  this class  that  you're  able  to  go  in and  basically  define  a  function that  is  a  turbine,  right? Cossors  giving inputs  and  outputs  and  stuff  like  that. Okay,  in  terms  of  your  problems, you're  responsible  for  entry  regeneration, your  two  power  cycles,  and  then  fundamentals. So  the  way  you  should  see  this  is relatively  easy,  you  know,  good, and  that  two  pointer  is probably  the  hardest  problem,  okay? So  great. So  actually  today,  you're going  to  be  able  to  introduce concepts  of  refrigerators  and heat  pumps  and  measure  their  performance  and analyze  the  ideal  vapor compression  refrigeration  cycle,  Maya. Wednesday,  Thursday,  Friday,  Thursday  Friday. So  it's  the  dates  on  the  courses  dates. It  says  the  two  dates.  Other  questions? Okay,  heat  pumps. So  the  plot  that  I'm  showing  you here  is  from  a  couple  of  years  ago showing  you  the  number  of  units  sold  as a  function  of  time  for heat  pumps  and  gas  furnaces. And  three  years  ago,  there  were more  heat  pumps  sold  in the  United  States  than there  were  furnaces,  okay? And  today's  lecture  is going  to  sort  of  reinforce  why. Um  So  why  is  it  important? Well,  one,  I  mean,  in  electrification, if  you  have  renewable  sources  that  power  it, essentially,  you're  not  using natural  gas  then  to  heat,  okay? So  it's  a  decarbonization. The  second  thing  is that  it  just  makes  economic  sense. What  I'm  going  to  show you  today  is  that  the  heat  that I  transfer  into  a  building  to  heat  it, I  have  one  unit  of  electricity to  move  three  units  of  heat,  okay? That's  what  we're  going  to  see. So  there  you  would  say,  okay,  well, what  if  I  just  ran  and  transferred work  into  a  resistor and  got  heat  out  of  that? That's  one  for  one,  okay? That's  not  good. Right?  But  it's  still  done,  you  know, and  with  heat  pumps, especially  when  they  get  cold  outside, sometimes  that's  all  you  can  do  to  do  it. But  anyways,  that's  a  three  to one  that's  organ  analyzed  today. How's  that  possible  without violating  the  first  law? Okay,  so  what  does  it  look  like? It's  a  relatively  simple  system. Um  What's  the  general  term for  this  is  called  vapor  compression, a  vapor  compression  cycle. So  what  does  that  mean?  I  have a  compressor  that  is  here. What  is  it  compressing? It's  compressing  a  vapor. I  have  a  vapor  that's  coming  in  here. I'm  compressing  that. That's  being  sent  then  to a  coil  where  it  condenses  and  releases  heat. So  heat  is  transferred  out  here. You  get  a  condensed  state, that  goes  through  a  throttling  valve, an  synthalic  process,  so  a  big  pressure  drop, and  essentially  you  get  then that  fluid  ready  to  boil. Where  then  it  absorbs  heat. So  this  operation  here  is  as  a  heat  pump. So  what  are  you  pumping,  alright? Essentially, you  have  this  system,  which  is  outside, and  you're  taking  in  heat  from the  outside  where  it's  cold,  okay? So  you're  taking  in  heat  from the  outside  where  it's  cold  in, and  you're  pumping  it  into an  indoor  space  where you're  transferring  that  heat at  a  higher  temperature,  okay? So  it's  kind  of  weird. I'm  taking  heat  from  a place  that's  cold,  okay? Pumping  it  in  and  actually warming,  but  it  works,  a  right? Um,  The  more  commonly  seen  one, and  this  is  one  that's  been implemented  in  this  country  for basically  like  100  years  in  homes  and  stuff, is  what  you  would  call  a refrigeration  system  or  HVAC, so  heating  ventilation  and  air  conditioning. So  the  air  conditioning  part of  this  is  shown  here. So  how  does  that  look  like? Exactly,  you  know,  just  swapped. So  essentially,  this  is your  indoor  coil,  right? So  this  is  your  house. Let's  say  that  you  want  to  cool. And  then  this  is  the  outside  where you  want  to  pump  the  heat. So  same  thing,  same  drill. I  have  a  vapor  that  comes in  on  my  compressor. I  pressurize  that,  it  warms. I  condense  it  on this  coil  and  you  blow  the  fans. If  you  look  like  a  rooftop, if  you  see  what's  called  central  air, you'll  see  these  units  on  the  side of  the  house  that  blow  air over  basically  big  radiators  that  are  there. So  you're  transferring  the  heat from  that  warmer  fluid to  the  warm  outside  air goes  through  a  throtting  valve, big  pressure  drop  in  cooling. You  boil  that. This  is  what  you  would then  have  inside  of  the  home. So  at  this  point,  you'd  have  here this  evaporator,  which  is  there, which  is  absorbing  heat  from the  house,  let's  say,  evaporating. So  the  exit  here,  you're a  saturated  vapor  that goes  back  into  the  compressor and  so  on  and  so  forth. Okay.  But  the  point is  that  with  this  technology, so  the  air  conditioning  side is  very  well  established. Carrier  hear  the  name  carrier,  right? He  was  a  pioneer  in  developing  this. I  uh,  you  know,  in  this, if  you  want  to  ask  yourself  why  it's called  air  conditioning  and  that  cooling, it's  an  interesting  question,  okay? So  conditioning  comes  from how  people  used  to  treat  yarn, okay?  It  used  to  be  conditioned. You  leave  it  in  a  room,  and that  conditioning  had  to  do  with  humidity. So  a  big  part  of  this,  which we're  not  going  touch  on  yet, but  I'm  alluding  to in  the  future  is  the  conditioning, which  is  actually  basically  the  regulation of  the  humidity  in  the  air. Okay. Today,  I'm  going  to just  talk  about  how  you  move  the  heat. Later  on,  we'll  get  into  how you  actually  control  the  humidity. And  that  gets  into comfort  and  what  comfort  is, and  it's  a  long  history  and  it's an  ongoing  debate  as  to I  would  say,  what's  optimal? What  is  comfort?  Okay?  Yeah.  So  anyway, so  this  is,  again,  a  more  familiar  system. And  then,  well,  not  in  this  city, the  weather  is,  like,  perfect. But  if  you  go everywhere  else,  then,  you  know, you  need  either  it's  too hot  or  it's  too  cold. And  you  can  switch  this  and then  turn  it  into  a  heat  pump. Okay.  So  the  second  case where  definitely  you  still  have  it  here, and  it  would  be  common  is that  same  system  as  I've  shown you  for  the  cooling  mode. So  essentially  air  conditioning, in  a  sense,  applied  to  a  refrigerator. So  refrigerators  operate  the  same  principle. It's  still  vapor  compression. The  noise  that  you  hear  them with  the  fridge  is  the  compressor, and  it's  the  same  drill,  okay? Where  you're  transferring  heat out  of  is  the  enclosed  space. So  that's  the  heat  you're absorbing  into  the  cycle, and  then  where  you reject  it  is  basically  in  the  back  of  it. So  if  you  look  in  the  back,  you'll  see, like,  long  coils  and  radiators  there, and  you  have  the  cooling  the  warmer  heat or  the  heat  being  rejected  to, um,  with  the  temperature  with the  fluid  as  a  higher  temperature than  into  the  ambient,  okay? Yeah,  so  that's  it. So  I'm  going  to  go  through  I'll derive  now  sort  of, you  know,  how  we  talk  about  the  performance. So  the  way  that  we  rate  the  performance  of these  systems  is  by a  coefficient  of  performance,  right? The  main  thing,  right? Why  we  call  it coefficient  of  performance  and  not  like a  theral  efficiency  of  ether  is  that a  CO  soon  ea,  right? What's  allowable  there,  like  zero, less  than  equal  to  one  for  a  thermal  engine. And  for  a  COP,  okay, this  is  always  greater  than or  equal  to  one,  okay? So  it's  not  an  efficiency  in  the  sense. It's  still  a  ratio  of  a  desirable  quantity divided  by  what  we  have  to  pay  for, but  its  number  is bigger  than  bigger  than  one. Excuse  me  while  I  get  a  new  marker. Okay.  Is  this  better?  Much  better. Okay.  All  right. So  just  to  then to  start  and  take  us through  the  analysis  of  the  cycle. So  we'll  draw  it  again. So  here  we  had  a  compressor where  we  were  putting some  work  right  into  this. This  was  going  up  and  then passing  through  a  condenser. So  I  had  some  Q  dot  out,  which  was  here. This  is  then  going  through a  throttling  valve,  right? So  here,  this  then  goes into  your  evaporator,  okay? And  then  back  into  the  compressor. In  terms  of  the  state, so  the  way  that  I've  labeled the  states  is  that  at  the  exit of  the  compressor  is  State  two, the  entrance  is  state  one, exit  of  the  condenser  is  State  three, and  the  exit  of  our throttling  valve  or  expansion  valve is  state  four,  right? Just  like  all  the  other steady  flow  analysis  that  we  did,  right? We're  neglecting,  it's  a  steady  flow  device, so  the  change  in  mass of  our  individual  control  volume. So  if  I  j  control  volume around  my  compressor. I  do  it  around  my  heat  exchangers. I  do  it  around  my  expansion  valve, and  again,  my  heat  exchangers, as  I  showed  this  here,  this should  be  a  Q  dot. All?  This  should  be  aq.in. All  right,  so  the  change  in  mass  of  each  of those  control  volumes  is  equal  to  zero. The  change  in  energy in  those  control  volumes  is  zero, and  the  change  in  entropy  in those  control  volumes  is  also  zero,  right? The  steady  flow  assumption. Right?  And  what  we'd  like  to  do right  in  this  analysis  is  we'd  to determine  the  COP for  a  refrigeration. Cycle  and  a  heat  pump. Just  make  sure  that's  still visible  a  little  bit  off. Okay.  All  right.  All  right. And  then  we  want  to  determine  and  then determine  the  COPs assuming  reversible.  All  right. So  we  assume  that  both  those  cycles then  operate  in  a  reversible  manner. So  this  will  be  the  strategy for  analyzing  a  more  realistic  system, and  then  this  will  essentially  be  how  we determine  the  maximum  efficiency, which  is  the  Carnal. So  we'll  do  a  carnal  efficiency, but  now  for  a  refrigeration and  a  heat  pump  and not  a  heat  engine,  right? And  resume  reversible  operating between  two  thermal  reservoirs. Okay.  All  right,  to  do. Yeah,  and  so  we  can  talk  for  a  second  about the  properties  before  we get  into  more  of  the  energy  analysis. So  one  of  the  most  popular  refrigerants that's  out  there  is  R  134  A,  okay? So  when  you're  determining properties  in  this  system, you're  not  working  with  water,  okay? And  the  reason  why  you're  not  working  with water  is  because  water  does  not  boil. Well,  it  can,  but  it's not  great  for  boiling  at  room  temperature, or  lower  or  higher, where  you  would  need  it. You  need  other  fluids. You  need  other  fluids  that  are  more volatile  at  these  conditions, and  this  is  one  of  them. These  are  fluorocarbons. Another  very  widely  used  refrigerant is  CO  two  and  ammonia. If  you  eat  French  fries, which  I  love,  and  my  kids  love, ammonia  is  probably  maybe the  largest  refrigeration  systems on  this  planet  run  on  ammonia. The  reason  why  we  don't  use them  in  whole  foods  and stuff  is  because  it's Kind  of  dangerous,  okay? It  needs  copper.  It's  not  super  good. So  in  those  cases,  you  might  pair  up ammonia  with  CO  two. So  you  might  call  this  like a  top  cycle  and  a  bottom  cycle, like  we  did  before  for  the  Rankin. We'll  get  to  how  we  can  pair  up  things. But  these  are  pretty  important  ones. If  you  have,  like,  a  small  fridge, like  a  beverage  fridge, they  don't  run  on  any  of  these. They  actually  run  sometimes  on  butane, like  lighter  fluid,  okay, those  things  are  also  volatile, but  they  don't  use  those  in very  large  quantities.  Why? Yeah,  exactly.  So  what  Kai  said,  right? If  a  beverage  fridge is  kind  of  explosive,  I  don't  know. So  anyways,  but  these  are  the  ones, but  you'll  primarily  be  in  this  class  using PCalor  to  determine  the  properties  of RO  134  A,  carbon  dioxide. And  then  I  don't actually  we'll  have  to  see  with  ammonia. I  don't  recall  for  doing  it,  but  I  think R  134  A  and  C  two  are  two  of the  most  common  ones  that we  work  with.  You  don't  really  care. You  just  declare  substance  equals  this, and  then  it  does  the  lifting  for  you. Okay.  But  anyways,  you'll  use PClor  to  determine  these  properties. Do  do  do,  where  are  we  at? All  right.  So  if  we  get  into the  specific  devices  now. So  if  we  get  into  our  energy  and entropy  analysis  of  these  devices, like  one  to  two  is  a  compressor, and  a  compressor  works  with  vapor? A  pompas  for  a  liquid, a  compressor  is  for  vapor? And  we  don't  work  with  multiphase. You're  basically  compressing  a vapor  with  this. This  is  adiabatic,  it's  an  adiabatic. And  we  have,  it's  a  reversible,  right? We  can  say  for  now,  um,  We  can  say,  you  know, in  the  first  step  of  the  analysis  to  get to  state,  you  know, two  S,  right  there, we  can  say  that  little  S  one is  equal  to  little  S  two. What's  the  logic  behind  that? We  have  an  adiabatic  process  that operates  reversibly  emits  steady  flow. So  we  have  no  gen, that  means.in  is  dot  out, in  as  one  equals  dot  out  as  two, m.in  ism  dot  out. So  you'll  end  up  with, you'll  end  up  with  that,  right? Um,  Good. So  that's  for  our  compressor, for  two  to  three  on  the  condenser,  right? Condenser.  Condenser  here. It's  isobaric,  right? So  our  Delta  P  across  any  heat  exchanger, we're  going  to  assume  is zero  unless  otherwise  told. We  have  no  shaft  work,  right. Our  W  dot  is  equal  to  zero, and  the  exit  states  here. So  the  exit  state  like our  buddy  we  talked  with  Ben  before, the  exit  state  of  this  is going  to  be  a  saturated  liquid. So  X  three  is  going  to  be  equal  to  zero. All  right.  Three  to  four is  your  expansion  valve. So  three  to  four  is  expansion. Valve.  And  this  is  adiabatic,  right? So  we  have  adiabatic, and  there  is  no  work,  okay? And  then  for  our  evaporator, so  then  excuse  me, four  to  one  here,  evaporator. Evaporate  evaporator. Again,  it's  a  heat  exchanger, so  your  Delta  P  is  equal  to  zero, and  you  also  have  no  work. Obviously,  the  point  of  it  is  you  want to  absorb  heat,  okay. For  all  of  these  things, we  also  neglect,  right? We're  neglecting  globally  for  all  of  this. Changes  in  kinetic  energy are  zero  and  changes in  potential  energy  are  also  zero,  right? Okay.  For  your  compressor  then, that  means  that  your  w.in  is  an m.h2a  minus  H  one,  the  actual  one. Again,  I'll  write  down  how  we  use isotropic  efficiencies  if  needed. For  our  condenser,  our  Q  dot, out  of  the  condenser  is your  M  dot  times  H  three  minus  H  two. I'm  sorry,  the  other  way. So  the  condenser  heat  is  going  out, a  state  two  A  has  the  higher  enthalpy  H two  A  minus  H  three, your  expansion  valve,  so  we neglect  changes  in  potential  kinetic  energy. You  have  no  heat  transfer and  you  have  no  work  transfer. So  what  does  this  mean  for  this  process? What  about  the  inlet is  equal  to  what  about  the  outlet? Say  it  again,  Cody. Exactly. It's  a  nice  enthalpic  process.  Thank  you. H  three  is  equal  to  H  four  there. I  And  then  our  last  one is  then  with  the  evaporator. So  our  evaporator  then, our  Q  dot  N  is  equal  to  M  dot, right,  because  it's  evaporating, it's  absorbing  heat. So  what  you'd  expect  then  is that  the  enthalpy  at  state  one is  then  greater  than  the  enthalpy at  state  four, m.h1  minus  H  four. If  we  If  we come  back  to  this  H  twoA,  for  a  compressor, the  isentropic  efficiency  of a  compressor  is  defined as  the  minimum  work  in needed  to  compress  divided by  the  actual  work. So  the  minimum  would  be  H  twos  minus  H  one. The  actual  one  would  be  H  two  A  minus  H  one. In  general,  if  you were  given  that  problem  here, this  is  a  piece  of information  that  would  be  given. You  determine  H  twos, by  one  piece  of information  to  get  to  it  is  that  you assume  that  the  specific  entropy at  state  two  is  equal  to the  specific  entropy  at  state  one, and  then  you  basically  solve  for  HA. The  light  condition  would  be  given. Mm  hmm.  Okay.  All  right. Now  we've  got  this. This  is  my  these are  my  properties  here,  my  efficiencies. So  if  we  come  now  to  the  COP, so  for  the  COP,  this  is,  right, the  ratio  of,  you  know, what  I  want  to  what  I  have  to  pay. So  for  a  refrigeration  cycle, what  I  want  is  Right? So  if  it's  cooling  something,  right, the  desired  output  is  that  I want  to  maximize  QL, what  I'm  going  to  pay  is the  network  in,  okay? So  this  would  be,  right,  your  Q  dot. And  in  this  case,  this  Q  dot  is  what is  absorbed  by  the  evaporator. So  this  would  be  in  our  case  here,  q.in, right,  is  the  heat  absorbed by  the  evaporator. And  then  the  network  in  is  just  w.in,  right? The  reason  why  we  don't  have  it being  a  networking  is because  we  are  working  with an  expansion  valve,  right? We're  working  with  an  expansion  valve here  because  it's  convenient. If  I  didn't  use  an  expansion  valve  here, what  other  device  could  I use  to  expand  my  fluid? So  I  have  a  compressor that  is  compressing  what is  kind  of  like  the  inverse  of  a  compressor. A  turbine.  That's  exactly  right. So  you  could  go  in  and  you  could replace  this  with  the  turbine if  you  wanted  to. And  then  instead  of  this  being  w.in, this  would  be  aw.net  in,  okay? And  the  reason  why  we  use an  expansion  valve  is  because  it's cheap  and  turbines  cost  money,  okay? And  we  want  a  cheap,  you  know, fridge  or  whatever,  okay? But  if  you  wanted  to, you  could  go  in  and  look  and  maybe see  if  there's  opportunities  for maybe  if  you  wanted to  boost  the  COP  even  more, it  might  make  sense  then  to  do that  expansion  process  with  the  turbine. Okay,  so  what  does this  look  like  from  what  we've  defined? So  our  q.in  is  at  our  evaporator,  right? So  that's  our  M  dot  times  H  one  minus  H  four. And  then  our  w.in  here  is  from our  compressor  that's  M  dot  HA minus  H  one  and  let's  go  away. And  so  that's  the  COP  then for  a  refrigeration  cycle. You  can  do  the  same  thing  for  the  heat  pump. So  the  COP  for  the  heat  pump, all  that's  different  is  that the  desirable  quantity  is  not  the  q.in, but  it's  the  Q  dot  out  of  this  cycle. So  you  have  here  a  Q  dot  out. And  that's  the  heat  rejected  at the  higher  temperature  divided  by  your  w.in. And  so  your  Q  dot  out  is  in  the  condenser, that's  dot  H  two  A  minus  H  three, and  that's  dot  H  two  A  minus  one. Okay,  get  rid  of  the  end  dots, and  you  have  it. Okay?  All  right. And  the  reason  why  this  is not  a  violation  of  the  first  law. It's  instructive  if  I  come  back  to  here is  if  I  drew a  control  volume  around  the  entire  system, capturing  how  energy  is coming  in  and  going  out. All  right.  So  The  way that  energy  is  entering  here, so  I  write  the  first  law applied  to  this  control  volume, I  have  w.in  plus  q.in is  equal  to  Q  dot  out,  okay? And  so  for  you  to  be  able  to absorb  something  like  three  units  of  heat  in, okay,  for  maybe  like  one  unit  of  work  in, it  means  that  the  sum of  those  two  things  must  be equal  to  the  heat  you transfer  out,  okay,  there. So  you'll  have  to  put  more  heat  out, but  this  is  basically, um,  right,  the  trick that  we're  dealing  with  here,  okay? Um,  Yeah, and  so  you  can  rewrite w.in  also  in  another  way. I  can  say  that  w  dot  N  is  equal  to q  dot  out  minus  q.in. We'll  use  that  in  a  second. All  right.  Mm  hm. All  right. So  this  is  it.  So  when  you're analyzing  the  vapor  compression  cycle, this  is  for  the  heat  pump or  for  the  refrigeration. This  is  the  way  you  do  it,  all  right? I've  included  the  whole  part on  the  isotropic  efficiency. Like,  that's  it,  all right,  for  the  loop,  right? It's  analogous  here  to, like,  the  rank  in  like  we  had  before. This  is  what  you  would  have  for  refrigeration and  then  for  heat  pump. Now,  what  we  can  look  at  is answering  the  second  part of  our  question,  right? So,  this  one  is  All  right. This  one  is  done,  okay? Here  was  the  COP  for  the  heat  pump, here  is  the  COP  for  refrigeration. Now  what  we'd  like  to  do  is the  Carne  analysis,  right? So  the  COP  for  the  refrigerator  is equal  to  the  right,  the  q.in. And  this  is  at  the  lower  temperature. What  I'd  like  to  call  this  now  is Q  dot  L.  This  is  how  the  book  describes  it. And  our  Q  dot  out here  that  I'm  rejecting  to  the  hot  side, I'd  like  to  call  Q  dot  H.  Okay, so  the  desirable  thing  in  refrigeration  is an  output  is  the  Q  dot  L,  and  the  input, as  I  wrote  for  the  first  law  here, so  this  would  then  be  Q  dot  H  minus  Q  dot  L. I'd  have  Q  dot  L  divided  by w  dot  N  is  equal  to  Q  dot  L  divided  by  Q  dot. Q  dot  minus  Q  dot  L,  right? Dividing  top  and  the  bottom  by  Q  dot  L, what  you'd  have  is  one  divided by  q  dot  H  divided  by Q  dot  L  and  minus  one.  All  right. And  just  like  with  Carne, we  would  like  to transform  these  into  temperatures, and  that's  what  we're going  to  do  right  now,  all  right? So  for  any  cycle,  right? If  I  take  the  integral, dQ  by  T  here, this  must  be  less  than  or equal  to  zero,  okay? In  the  case  when  this  equals dq  divided  by  T  is equal  then  to  zero  for  a  cycle. So  this  is  basically  the  integral right  around  the  entire  cycle. When  this  is  equal  to  zero, this  is  when  it's  operating  reversibly,  okay? Good.  Are  you  with  me?  All  right. For  our  process,  Right? Our  heat  exchange  is happening  from  two  thermal  reservoirs. So,  if  it's  a  thermal  reservoir,  right? I  can  pull  the  temperature outside  of  the  integral. And  what  I'm  going  to  be  dealing  with  is a  heat  addition  and  a  heat  removal. When  I'm  doing  heat  removal, right,  that's  going  to  be  negative. When  I'm  doing  heat  addition, that's  going  to  be  positive,  right? So  here,  I  have  Q  dot  L  divided  by  T,  okay? I  guess  we'll  write  that  as  rate  format, but  we  can  do  this  as  a  Q  dot  L divided  by  T  because  that's right  this  is  being  transferred  in,  right? So  my  convention  will  be  that  way. And  then  this  is  from  T  L. So  imagine  here  in  this  process  that  this is  a  thermal  reservoir that's  here  that's  a  TL, and  then  imagine  that  I  have a  thermal  reservoir  where I'm  transferring  heat  into, which  is  at  H,  right? So  then  this  is  basically  going  to  be Q  dot  H  divided  by  my  H. And  because  this  is  a  reversible  cycle, that's  going  to  be  equal  to  zero. Can  rearrange  this? If  we  rearrange  this, we  can  write  this  as  a  Q  dot  H  divided  by a  Q  dot  L  is  equal  to  a  H  divided  by  a  tl. What  that  means  then  for  the  COP of  my  refrigeration  cycle, so  this  is  equal  to one  over  now  with  the  substitution, H  divided  by  l  minus  one.  All  right. You  can  do  the  same  thing  you can  do  the  same  analysis. You  can  write  the  COP  for the  heat  pump  in  the  same  way, except  instead  of  dot  L, it's  dot  H.  And  what  you'll have  then  is  one  minus  Q  dot  L divided  by  Q  dot  H. And  you  go  through  this,  same  process. The  COP  for  a  heat  pump  operating reversibly  is  then  equal  to  1/1 minus  L  divided  by H.  So  what  does  this  look  like  here? All  right.  So  what  I'm  showing  here is  just  for  the  case  of  the  heat  pump,  right? So  I  have  here  the  Carne  efficiency  of the  heat  pump  as  a  function of  the  outdoor  temperature,  okay? So  in  this  case,  that's  TL,  right? The  horizontal  line  is  when  it  equals  to  one, when  I  have  a  COP  of  one, and  the  red  line  is what  I'm  writing  here,  okay? Again,  it  never  gets  to  I  don't  know. This  is  pretty  rare.  Here,  okay? So  if  you're  in,  like,  Berkeley  and  in the  winter  and  stuff  and you're  looking  at,  you  know, whether  a  system  like  this  makes  sense, at  0  Celsius,  you have  a  COP  that's  greater  than  ten,  right? So  one  unit  of  electricity  in, I  move  ten  units  of  heat,  okay? Of  course,  that's  the  upper  limit,  right? That's  a  theoretical  thing, but  this  kind  of  tells  you, you  know,  you're  cooking  with something  special  here,  right? Um  realistic  systems  that operate  in  the  neighborhood, I  think  of  three  to  54  COPs  here, which  we'll  do  in  the  next  analysis. We'll  go  in  and  look  at  a  real  one. But  that's  the  promise  of  it,  okay? When  you  try  to  pump  heat in  from  things  that  are  colder, at  some  point,  it  becomes  very  difficult. So  in  real  operations  of  heat  pump  systems. So  in  my  beloved  Midwest, out  there  in  the  winter, there  are  times  when  the  temperature  gets so  low  that  it's  impractical. And  fortunately,  at  that  point, you  switch  over  from  pumping  heat  to essentially  running  the  electricity through  a  resistor  and  heating  that  way. Okay,  so  there  are  cutoffs  and  with  it, but  in  a  lot  of  locations  that are  more  mild  but  kind  of  chilly, these  things  make  a  lot  of  sense to  install,  right? Just  economic  sense  before  you  get  into decarbonization  or any  considerations  like  that,  okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  this? Okay.  If  not,  we  will  continue. Dick  do,  dick,  do. I  I  can  leave  this  up. This  one,  I  can  also  leave  up, and  this  one  can  go  away. Okay.  So  in  this  problem, what  we  have  is  we're  working  with  R  134  A. Okay,  we're  working  with  R  134  A. Again,  just  a  refrigerant. The  R  stands  for  refrigerant. R  134  A,  you're  told  that  you  have a  condenser  pressure  condenser  pressure that's  equal  to  800  pa.  And  you  have an  evaporator  temperature  evaporator temp  that's  equal  to -20  degrees  C.  We  want  to  determine  What  do we  want  to  determine  the  COP of  this  system  and the  total power  total  power required  to  service a  150  kilowatt  cooling  load. All  right. So  here  we're  saying  cooling  load. Sometimes  with  these  systems, when  you  speak  about,  like, chillers,  they'll talk  about  tons  of  chilling. And  all  that  means  is  that,  like  in 1  hour  at  that  cooling  load, you  can  produce,  like,  one  ton  of  ice. You  have  a  very  nice  homework  problem that  deals  with  ice  production, slury  production  there.  Yeah. But  here,  we're,  you  know,  we're keeping  it  simple  and  calling it  a  a  cooling  load.  All  right. Um,  Okay,  so  again, this  is  our  system,  so  we  have aw.in  the  compressor, our  heat  out  through  the  condenser, isothalpic  throttling  valve, heat  heat  absorbed  by  our  evaporator. This  cooling  load  here, right,  is  essentially  than  that,  right? This  is  basically  we're looking  for,  you  know, we  have  a  Q  dot  L  that's  then equal  to  150  kilowatts. Um,  what's  the  total  power required  to  do  this,  right? Essentially,  what  we're  looking for  is  on  aw.in. So  we're  searching  for  the  w.in, and  to  do  this, we  need  to  know  the  Q  dot  L  divided  by w.in  or  Q  dot  L  divided  by  Q dot  H  minus  Q  dot  dot  L.  A.  Mm  hmm. All  right.  And  so  we're  going  to go  through  now  is essentially  the  states,  right? Because  we  have  our  governing  formulas  there. We've  already  derived,  then the  COP  of  the  refrigeration  cycle. So  the  answer  to  the  first  part is  here,  okay? So  that's  what  we  want. And  the  answer  to the  second  part  is  our  q.in,  right? So  this  is  a  Q  dot  N, which  is  our  Q  dot  L,  okay? All  right.  And  so  the  name  of the  game  is  we  need  to  determine,  right? So  to  go  along  with  this, we  need  to  determine  the  states  there, and  we  also  have  to  determine  our  MDOT. So  from  the  beginning.  So  state  three, we  can  start  from  state  three. Okay.  So  state  three  is  at  the  exit  of, give  me  a  quick  second  here. So  yeah,  state  three is  at  the  exit  of  your  condenser. And  just  like  we  said  before,  for the  rankin  cycle  in  a  condenser, right,  the  exit  state  should be  a  saturated  liquid. So  we  have  an  X  three,  which  is  there, and  the  pressure  is  given,  right? So  the  pressure  was  given  in the  problem  as  800  KPA, S  R  134  is  a  pure  substance, it  means  that  you  know  H  three,  right? We  know  H  three  out  of  it. For  state  four,  if  we  go  to  state  four  now. Okay,  so  for  state  four, this  is  going  across  the  expansion  valve. So  H  four  is  equal  to  H  three. All  right.  We'll  pause  for  a  second  on  that. We'll  skip  ahead  now  to  State  State  one. So  for  state  one,  this is  at  the  exit  of  the  evaporator. Again, just  like  the  condenser  at  the  evaporator, you're  going  to  expect  it  to  be  as a  saturated  vapor,  right,  evaporation. So  that  should  be  equal  to  one. And  we're  given  the  temperature  here. So  the  temperature  we  were told  of  the  evaporator is  -20  Celsius,  -20. Celsius  is  then  evaporation, and  that  could  be  the  temperature right  anywhere  along  this,  right? This  is  essentially  a  boiling  process, so  you  have  constant  temperature  and constant  pressure  through  that  device. So  here  you  have  this  and  you  have  that, which  means  that  you  have specific  entropy  and  specific  enthalpy  there. And  additionally,  you  also have  the  pressure  at  P  one. If  you  look  back  now  from state  one  to  state four  of  the  evaporator,  right? It's  a  heat  exchaner, a  constant  pressure  device. What  this  means  is  that  P  four is  equal  to  P  one,  which  we  have  there. So  we  have  states  three,  four,  and  one. Our  remaining  one  is  then  for  state. State  two,  we  call  it  state  two  S. So  for  state  two  S, in  the  isotropic  case, through  the  compressor,  little  S two  is  equal  to  little  S  one. I'm  not  going  to  write  out the  whole  entropy  analysis. We've  done  this  enough  times,  but  again, it's  an  adiabatic  compressor operating  reversibly. So,  um,  steady  flow of  ice  and  no  change  in  entropy  in  there. And  because  it's  reversible, we  don't  have  any  entropy  generation. A  single  inlet,  single  outlet. That's  what  you  end  up  with. That's  at  state  two  S. And  the  other  piece  of  information  that we  would  have  is  that  state  two  and state  three  are  connected via  a  heat  exchanger. So  then  P  two  is  equal  to  P  three, which  was  given  as  800  kPa,  right? And  so  from  this,  what  you'll  have  is  you'll have  h2s  from  here. Since  this  is  the  ideal vapor  compression  cycle, we're  not  given,  you  know, we  don't  have  any  indication or  we're  not  told  anything  about the  efficiency  of  our  compressor. And  so  what  we  would  infer  then  is that  the  efficiency  is  100%,  right? So  what  that  means  is  that,  this  H  two, what  this  means  for  if  I  have  a  compressor, efficiency  equal  to  100%, it  means  that  H  two  actual is  equal  to  h2s,  okay? Or  you  can  just  call  it  H  two,  right? I'm  being  like,  you  know,  very  detailed, you  know,  with  the  logic  and  how  you  might see  a  problem  in  the  future.  So  it's  ideal. It  means  that  my  isentropic efficiency  of  the  compressor  100%. So  then  the  enthropy  at  the  exit  of that  compressor  is  equal to  the  isotropic  one. Okay. Yeah,  so  at  this  point, it's  just  plug  and  chug. So  to  get  to  our  COP, so  the  COP  There.  All  right. What  we'd  be  substituting  in  for, right  is  our  H  H  two  A, which  is,  of  course, H  twoS  and  then  the  H  one. In  this  case,  what  I  have  for my  COP  is  3.83  as  a  value  with  substitution. And  again,  this  falls between  what  would  be  expected. So  3-5  is  a  good  number. There  is  work  that  goes  on  now that  tries  to  bring  these  things  up  to  ten, but  they  don't  involve  vapor  compression, right? So  this  is  what  you'd  have  with  this. We  also  have  is  there  a  question? Yes,  please.  It's  state one?  No. It's  a  closed  loop  cycle. So  think  like  Rankin,  right? In  our  Rankin  systems, we  were  operating  between  what  tens  of PA  to  tens  of  megapascals. So  we  were  going  all  the  way between  below atmospheric  pressure  to  well  above  it. It's  the  same  thing  here. So  don't  have  an  expectation that  the  thing  has  anything to  do  with  ambient. Okay.  I  will  note  that  for  something  like R  134  A  in  the  compression  process, you  don't  have  to  go  to  crazy  high  pressures, maybe  like  a  couple  of times  atmospheric  pressure, there,  but  you  have  a  big  pressure  drop  to four  to  cause  you  to  boil  and  do  that. I  don't  know  what  the  pressure  is  here, but  I  can't  say  that  it's  atmospheric,  okay? And  that's  our  134  A. If  you  do  something  like  carbon  dioxide, the  pressure  that  you  have  here  can be  like  100  bar, 120  times atmospheric  pressure  for  a  system  like  that, which  then  makes  them  a  little more  sometimes  difficult  to handle  because  then  you  have very  large  systems  that  are  at  high  pressure. But  there's  no  indication, that  this  is  something  like  a Brayton  where  the  inlet would  be  atmospheric,  okay? It  is  interesting  to think  about  that,  though, to  run  a  refrigeration  cycle  on  air. Maybe  a  good  final  exam  problem,  right? It  doesn't  involve  property  tables. Seriously,  I'm  going  to  think  about  that. Okay.  All  right.  Other  questions? No. Okay,  so  to  get  our  dot,  what  do  we  do? We  can  look  at  the  loads. So  we  know  the  Q  dot  L,  right? We're  told  information  about  the  Q  dot  L there  for  the  second  part. And  so  Q  dot  L is  equal  to  the  mass  flow  rate, right  into  our  evaporator  times  Little  QL. What  is  little  QL? This  is  nothing  but, you  know  what  I  wrote  before. This  will  be  one  minus  four. We  rearrange  this.  Our  dot is  equal  to  Q  dot  L divided  by  H  one  minus  H  four. So  given  it's  150  kilowatts  H  one  and  H  four, we've  determined  from  here and  here,  H  four  that  we  know. And  from  this,  you  can  see for  the  mass  flow  rate, what  I  have  is  about  a  kilogram  per  second. So  1.05  kilograms/second  is what  I  have.  And  what's  the  power? So  the  power  now  to  service  this, we  can  say  is  w  dot  N  is  equal to  Q  dot  minus  Q  dot  L. Again,  Q  dot  L  is  a given  given  in  our  problem. Our  Q  dot  H  is  then  going  to  be  the  dot, which  we  just  determined,  and where's  Q  dot  H, that's  going  to  be  a  minus our  three  minus  Q  dot  L. Okay.  And  if  you  substitute the  numbers  in  for  that, I  have  a  power  requirement  that  is approximately  39  kilowatts,  right? So  our  w.in  here  is  39  kilowatts. And  again,  just  to  remind  you  that 39  is  much  less  than  the  150, and  that's  why  we  bother  with teaching  this  and  learning about  it  and  using  it. Okay? Questions.  Among  the  simpler  cycles,  okay? Good.  That's  how  it  looks  like. So  you  can  do  some  plots. So  the  way  Um, so  I  show  you  here  a  PV  diagram. Here's  a  pH  in  this  field, it's  pretty  common  to  present  these  things  on pressure  specific  enthalpy  diagrams,  right? If  we  go  three  to  four through  the  expansion  valve, you  can  see  that  that  process is  indeed  isomthalpic. Through  that  four  to  one,  right, the  enthalpy  is  increasing because  you're  boiling  or you're  boiling  until  you  a  saturated  vapor. You  compress  it  isotropically, and  then  you  condense,  right? You  condense  through  here, and  then  when  you're  beneath  the, you  know,  during  that,  um, the  connotation  is  happening  inside  of a  heat  exchanger  and  heat  exchange  isobaric, you'd  expect  from  state  two  S  here  to state  three  to  be  constant  pressure,  okay? So  it's  a  pH. And  yes,  if  there  are  no  questions, I  will  give  you  5  minutes  on  this  well, 4  minutes  on  this  lovely  day,  okay? I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions. Thank  you,  everyone.
