I. I All  right. Oh,  it's  loud. Okay.  Entropy  today. We're  going  to  look  at  entropy  changes for  pure  substances, and  we're  going  to  talk  a  bit about  really  the  utility  of  this, which  is  isotropic, basically  isentropic  processes  there. Um.  I  thought  for  a  second,  of  course, you've  all  done  your  pre  work  and  reading, and  I  know  you're  all  up  to  speed and  not  concerned  at  all  about  quiz  one. So  the  point  is  entropy  is  a  very, like,  weird  thing,  okay? We  don't  measure  it. Any  tells  you  they  really  know  what  it  is, you  do  not  trust  that  person. That's  like  the  first  rule  of  entropy. Um,  The  way  that  I  like  to  think  about  it, and  this  will  become,  like, clearer  when  we  get into  when  we  get  into,  like, power  cycles  is,  you  know, you  remember,  like,  here  we  had  the  pressure, you  know,  pressure  volume. You  say,  okay,  I  want  to  be  able to,  um,  you  know, maybe,  you  know, I  got  some  state,  you  know,  that's  here. Let's  say  I  can  really  superheat,  you  know, water  vapor  to,  you  know, to  this  very  high,  you  know,  superheat. And  then  what?  Okay?  So  basically, I  can  take  the  boiler,  right,  I  can really  heat.  I  can  get  you  up  to  this  state. And  one  of  the  problems  when you're  analyzing  turbines  and all  these  devices  to  get  power out  of  it  is  it's  difficult to  think  about  wire  to  sort of  draw  next,  okay? And  entropy  is  going  to  help  us. It's  pretty  much  going to  help  you  to  be  able  to  say, okay,  I'm  going  to  end  up,  maybe  down  here. The  way  we're  going  to  represent  this  though, is  not  on  what's  called  the  PV  diagram, but  on  TS  diagrams. And  again,  you  did your  reading  and  all  of  that. So  what  you'll  remember  from the  Carne  cycle  is  that  essentially the  TS  diagram  for Carne  looks  like  that,  okay? So  I  transfer  heat,  isothermally  in. I  have  a  reversible  turbine,  right  there. So  isotropic, means  like  It's constant  entropy  from  this  state. I  take  heat  out  here, and  then  I  transfer work  in  reversibly  with  a  pump,  okay? So  I've  introduced  a  word for  you  here,  isentropic. So  this  ability  that  we can  have  for  our  work  devices, especially  our  steady  flow  ones, to  move  up  and  down  vertically like  that  is  helpful,  okay? The  other  important  thing  is  the  area enclosed  inside  of  here  is  the  net  heat  in, which  for  a  cycle,  what  is  that  equal  to? Okay.  Hand  up,  name. It  could  be  that.  I'm  thinking  like  this. But  this  is  an  area,  right? So  if  I  did  an  area  of  a  PV  diagram, let's  say  I  gave  you  a  PV diagram  that  looked  like  that. What  would  be  that  area?  Work  net  work. And  what  I'm  telling  you  here is  that  this  is  net  heat  in. So  for  a  cycle, in  order  for  me  to  end up  at  the  same  place  where  I  started, what  must  the  net  heat  in  be  equal  to? Name?  A.  Say  it  again.  AV. Now,  work  out.  AV,  right? That's  it. Okay?  We  got  the  right  side  of  the  room. Point  to  them,  okay?  Just  kidding. You  guys  also  good  thing.  That's  it.  Okay? So  again,  it's  going  to  help  you to  connect  processes,  right? It's  going  to  help  us,  like,  a  compass, guide  us  where  we  need  to  go,  one  part  of  it. And  the  second  part  of  it  is  it may  prove  helpful  when we  want  to  analyze  things  like, you  know,  the  power output  of  the  device,  okay? Is  that  good  before  we now  really  wade  into  this? Okay,  so  just  remember  it's helping  us.  It's  helpful. It's  a  friend,  not  a  foe.  All  right? Okay.  So,  but  first, before  we  can  use  a  compass  and  walk, we  got  to  learn  to  crawl  alright? So  here's  crawling.  So  I have  two  blocks.  Let's  say  here. One  hot,  one  cold. Maybe  I'll  stay  in  view. Sorry  for  those  watching.  All  right. I  got  one  hot  block. I  have  a  cold  block,  right? So  T  one  is  greater  than  T  two. And  let's  say  that  this  is  a  reservoir,  okay? So  a  reservoir  means  if  I transfer  heat  out  of  it  or  into  it, the  temperature  does  not  change,  right? This  just  means  I  have a  huge  hunk  of  metal,  right, that's  hot  and  maybe  a  huge  one that's  cold,  and  they're  connected,  right? So  I  can  transfer  heat  in  and  out. I'd  like  to  draw  a  control  volume  first around  the  one  on  the  left. And  I  would  like  to draw  another  control  volume around  the  one  on  the  right,  okay? Let  me  erase  this. All  right,  let  me  actually  read  the  problem, though,  because  it  is  blah,  blah,  blah. Two  bodies  are  placing contact  to  get  some  heat. So  what's  the  change  in the  entropy  of  each  body? So  each  body  here,  right, I'm  going  to  talk  about  the  change  in  entropy of  this  control  volume. I'm  going  to  talk  about  the  change  in entropy  of  this  control  volume. I  I'm  going  to basically  what  I'm  going  to  show you  is  that  just  like  internal  energy, I  can  sum  them,  right? So  if  I  take  entropy  change here  plus  the  entropy  change  here, that's  the  entropy  change  of the  combined  control  volumes. And  from  that,  I'm  going  to  link this  to  the  concept  of  reversibility, which  until  now  I  kind  of said,  trust  me  on  it. Like,  this  looks  reversible. With  this,  I'm  going  to  give  you a  firm  formula, right,  to  stand  on. You're  able  to  say,  no,  that  is  reversible  or no,  that  is  irreversible. Okay,  um  Great. So  entropy. So  we  can  write  that  ds, so  the  variable  for  entropy  is  S,  okay? I'm  going  to  write  the  units  of capital  S  is  equal to  what  does  this  equal  to? This  is  kilojoules  per  Kelvin. If  I  write  it  as  maybe  I'll give  it  some  fancy  things  to  make  it  big. If  I  write  little  S, little  S  is  equal  to kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  kelvin,  okay? So  that's  the  units  then  of  it,  right? So  this  is  the  intensive property,  like,  you  know, we  have  the  capital  U  internal  energy, little  U,  specific  internal  energy. It's  the  same  thing  here,  entropy and  specific  entropy,  right? This  is  equal  to,  right? This  is  equal  to  Delta  Q  divided  by  T,  okay? So  changes  in  entropy  are related  to  heat,  right? So  if  I  bring  heat  in  or  out  of  something, I'm  going  to  be  increasing  or decreasing  the  entropy  of  that  system,  okay? This  is  the  first  thing you  should  remember,  okay? All  right.  That's  the  first  thing  statement. The  second  one,  I  had  said  verbally, but  we  can  write  it  out  loud, right  I  can  say  that  the  total  change  in entropy  of the  combined  control  volumes  is  equal  to the  change  in  the  entropy  of control  volume  one  plus  the  change in  entropy  of  control  volume  two. Let's  focus  first  on  control  volume  one. All  right.  We  can  write  our um  So  when  we  look  at  this, as  it's  drawn,  I only  have  heat  leaving,  right? Basically  heat  leaving  the  system. So  my  cue  out. So  again,  this  is  for  say,  CV  one,  okay? My  Q  out  of, let's  say  one  is  just equal  to  the  Q  that  I've  defined  here,  right? So  I'm  saying  this  Q  is  here, and  I  don't  have  any  Q  in,  right? So  my  Q  in  for  control  volume  one  is equal  to  zero,  okay? And  we  assume,  right, because  we  assume  thermal reservoir  Because  of  that, the  temperature  T  one is  equal  to  a  constant,  right? If  I  take  our  formula  there, I  can  then  write  the  integral  of  ds, let's  say  from  state  one  to  state two  is  equal  to  the  integral of  dq  divided  by  let's  say  one. And  we  can  denote  I  like  to  denote  that  this applies  for  CV  one,  right? So  this  is  applied  to  CV  one  there,  right? Because  this  is  a  constant, you  can  take  the  T  one  out,  right? So  essentially  what  you're going  to  be  left  with  just  for  completeness, I'll  write  it  out,  right? You  know,  the  integral, uh  uh  of  dq, which  then  is  going  to  basically  Q  divided by  T  one  there,  right? Hmm.  Okay. Um,  I've  noticed  something here  that  I  would  like  to  correct. So  here,  right? I'm  saying  that  this  is, I  have  a  keeping  transferred  of  a  magnitude  Q from  control  volume  one  to control  volume  two.  That's  the  magnitude. What  I  wrote  here  is  that  the  Q out  of  this  is  equal  to  Q. Because  this  is  leaving,  right? Here,  I'll  have  to,  like, say  that  this  is  somehow  I'll  have to  give  this  basically  a  sign,  okay? Um,  Unlike  what  I  was  doing  before,  right, when  I  went  with  the  Q  and  the  Q  out  here, I  have  to  say  if  the  heat is  leaving  this,  right? It's  a  negative.  If  it's  entering  in, it's  then  a  positive,  okay? So  maybe  for  now,  what  I'll  write  is  Q  out. All  right.  And  I'll  call  that  a  CV  one. And  then  if  I  make  the  substitution, what  this  would  then  be  is  the  negative  Q divided  by  one,  okay? And  that  is  Delta  S.  Um,  where's  my  thing? I  have  Delta  S  one,  okay? So  we  got  one  formula,  right? And  what  does  that  mean  before I  get  to  the  second  one,  right? So  if  I'm  taking  heat  and  I'm  cooling,  right? Basically,  I'm  cooling off  control  volume  one. I'm  taking  the  heat  out, and  I'm  reducing  the  entropy,  okay? That's  important. So  if  I'm  taking  something  and I'm  transferring  heat  out  of  it, in  that  part  that's  being  cooled  there, the  entropy  is  being  reduced. One.  But  we're  still transferring  heat  into  something  else,  right? To  analyze  this,  we'll  have  to do  the  next  part. All  right. Oops. All  right. What's  the  easiest  here? I'm  looking  at  the  board, how  much  space  I  got. Let's  swap  this.  Let's  do  it  the  other way.  Let's  do  it  like  that. Okay,  so  now  we  can  look  at  CV  two. So  let's  look  at  control  volume  two. CV  two  are  Q in  of  um  of  two  is  just  equal  to  Q,  right? So  we're  transferring  heat  in, that's  positive  and  into  there, and  we  have  no  Q  out. So  our  Q  out  when  it  comes  to control  volume  two  is  equal  to  zero. Again,  we're  going  to  assume  that  the  one  on the  right  that  behaves like  a  thermal  reservoir. And  so  what  that  means  is  that  T  two is  equal  to  a  constant, that  doesn't  vary.  We'll  do  the  same  thing. So  if  I  apply  this  now  for  CV  two,  All  right. They'll  have  this  integral  from  state one  to  state  two  of  ds, and  that's  equal  to  the  integral  of  dq. Divided  by  T  two. This  two  can  come  out  of  the integral  because  it's  a  constant, so  I  have  one  over  T  two  integral  of  Q. And  what  this  is  then  going  to  be is  one  over  T two  times  Q  in  for  two, which  if  we  do  that  substitution, this  is  nothing  but  Q  divided  by  T  two,  okay? So  this  is  Delta  S  two,  right? So  there's  a  second  formula. And  all  we're  going  to  do. Okay,  so  let's  first  reflect on  this  before  we  bring  it  together. So  here,  right,  I  have heat  being  transferred  in. This  is  positive. The  temperature  is  a  constant. This  entropy  will  increase,  right? So  this  will  increase.  And  now we're  just  going  to  substitute  here. So  I'll  put  it  into  the  right  hand  side. So  this  is  what? This  is  nothing  but  negative  Q divided  by  T  one. Plus  Q  divided  by  two,  can  sort  this. I  can  then  just  write  Q  times  1/2 minus  one  over  T  one.  It's  Delta  S. Okay,  so  what  do  we  do? What  is  the  change  in  entropy  of  each  body? There  is  this.  So  body one  decreases  by  that  amount. By  two  increases  by  this  amount. What  is  the  change  in  entropy  of  the  system? It  is  this,  okay? And  is  this  process  reversible? So  for  a  process  to  be reversible,  what  do  you  think? How  would  you  describe  a  reversible  process? For  those  who  have definitely  done  reading,  yes, please.  What  was  that  last  part? The  same  entropy. So  I'm  going  to  build  on  that. If  the  entropy  does not  change  during  the  process, that  is  going  to  be a  reversible  process  here, for  the  purposes  of  this  analysis. So  if  the  entropy  doesn't  change  here, it's  going  to  be  reversible. What  do  we  think  about  this? Do  we  think  that  Delta  S is  going  to  be  zero  or  no? Or  what  would  it  take  for  Delta  S  to  be  zero? What  would  you  have  to  have,  Cody? Yeah. T  two  equals  to  T one  implies  Delta  S  is  zero. What  would  that  imply  for this  system  in  this  experiment? So  if  I  had  the  same  temperatures, what  would  happen  here or  what  wouldn't  happen  here? No  heat  transfer,  right? So  when  I  have  that,  there's no  heat  transfer,  okay? If  I'm  going  to  have  heat  transfer, my  entropy  is  going  to  change,  right? So  that's  the  first  thing. Now,  the  second  thing  is  that, is  this  a  positive or  is  this  a  negative  value? And?  Yes,  please. I  like  that.  It  sounds like  a  smart  person  said  it. Okay,  good.  Yes.  So  this  term  here, if  T  two  is  higher,  right? So  this  is  the  higher  temperature, one  over  that  is  going  to be  a  lower  number,  right? If  I  then,  this  is  on  the  colder  side,  sorry. I'm  sorry.  I'm  sorry.  I'm  sorry. Hold  on.  He.  I  got  to  write  hot  and  cold. This  is  like  my  problem.  You  get up  here  and  mistakes  happen. I  don't  know  how.  Maybe  it's  entropy. Alright,  so,  right? So  this  is  basically  going  to  be a  smaller  term  T  one  is  going  to  be  higher. So  your  negative  term is  going  to  be  smaller  because it's  a  higher  temperature than  this  one,  okay? So  the  take  home  message  is  that  Delta  S is  either  zero  in this  problem  when  nothing  happens, or  it  increases  when you  actually  allow  heat  to  flow,  okay? Delta  S  can  be  negative,  right? For  a  specific  control  volume,  right? Control  volume  one, Delta  S  definitely  decreased. But  if  I  look  at  the  whole  system  and  I gather  the  sum  of  all of  the  parts  and  I  add  it  up, If  it's  equal  to  zero,  right,  reversible, which  here  means  no  heat  transfer, or  it  increases. And  be  very,  very  skeptical in  your  analysis  if  you  end up  with  Delta  acids in  a  process  being  negative,  right? It  means  on  their  own  for  that  whole  system, it  will  not  happen  spontaneously,  okay? Right? And  that  was  like  a  major  achievement  in thermodynamics  is  like  the  prediction of  things  happening  spontaneously, right?  This  can  tell  you  that. It  can  either  tell  you  if  it's BS  or  if  it  won't  happen  spontaneously,  okay? Good?  It's  not  that  hard,  right? Or  it's  very  hard.  Okay.  Um,  Yes. All  right.  So  this  is, again,  some  fou  for  thought, and  you'll  get  some  practice  with  this and  get  to  use  it. And  at  some  point  you  become  comfortable  kind of  comfortable,  or  you'll  accept  it. So  entropies  are  entropy,  you  know, again,  just  like,  you  know,  when  we  did internal  energy,  it's  a  property,  okay? So  if  you  determine  the  state, if  you  know,  you  know, the  two  independent  properties  or parameters  of a  pure  substance, you  have  complete  information. So  just  like  I could  determine  internal  energy, enthalpy  specific  volume, you  can  also  determine  entropy,  right? Um,  what  I'm  showing  you  here is  not  super  helpful  if you're  doing  like  Pi  killer. These  are  like  little,  you know,  tricks  that  if  you  were, you  know,  old  school  and  doing, you  know, tables,  you  can  see  things  like  this. But  in  the  book,  when  you  look  it  up,  again, just  like  with  with  the  other  ones,  right? If  you're  having  notations  when  it's  like  F, right,  that's  like  a  liquid,  when  it's  a  G, right,  then  it's  rid  of  saturated, you  know,  vapor  that  are  with  it. But  the  take  home  message  out  of this  is  that  you  can  you  know, with  all  the  other  parameters that  you  would  determine, you  can  also  determine  entropy, and  you  will  also,  you  know, produce  a  lot  of  diagrams. So  you  will  produce  what  are called  TS  temperature  entropy. Diagrams  are  very  important when  you're  analyzing,  again, power  cycles,  gas  cycles,  there,  okay? And  it's  not  a  path  function,  right? So  if  you  like,  come  up  with a  difference  in  the  entropy, it's  just  a  difference,  right? You  don't  have  to  worry.  Like,  you have  that,  you  have  the  properties. All  the  formulas  are  very  valid  and compute  can  compute  there,  okay? Cool.  So  I  did  one  kind  of  intro  example. I'm  going  to  go  through  another  one now  to  show  you  a  little  bit  on that  property  determination  to convince  you  that  that's  possible. Now,  are  there  any  questions  before I  dive  into  that?  Is  this  clear? All  right.  Maybe  another  way, if  you  wanted  to  look  at this  before  I  dive  in, is  to  reflect  on  the  fact  that,  right, these  change  in  entropy  are like  the  dQ  by  T,  right? So  if  you're  transferring  heat in  from  a  reservoir  that's at  very  high  temperature,  right? Like,  it  kind  of tells  you  that  it  has  a  quality to  it.  All  right? So  this  is,  again, the  second  part  of  the  second  law, which  is,  you  know,  energy is  conserved  as  the  first  law. Energy  has,  like,  a  value to  it  is  the  second  law. And  so  looking  at  a  formula  like  that  is one  way  to  start  to  think  about  it. All  right.  You  all  know  that  there's, like,  a  review  session  today  at  four,  right? Dene  Verry  Hall?  Yes,  please. So  you.  What  Delta T.  The  Delta  T  that  I  just  erased. For  the  rate  of  entropy. So  I'm  sorry,  dq  over  T.  T, and  this  is  what  we're  going  to  get into  in  some  of  the  other  examples. When  I  take  control  volume  one  is the  temperature  of this  control  volume  here,  right? So  when  I'm  looking  at  the  change in  entropy,  I'm  saying,  okay, how  much  heat,  am  I  transferring  out  of  that, and  then  what's  that  temperature  there? And  there  will  be  cases where  things  don't  behave  as  a  reservoir. Again,  the  last  problem  we're  going  to  do today  is  going  to  be  illuminating because  you  can  have  cases  where  I transfer  heat  out  of  something and  the  temperature  changes. All  right.  And  that's  going  to  have an  effect  then  on  this  formula. So  you're  going  to  have  to  integrate. You're  going  to  write  Q  essentially as  like  MCP  Delta  T. You're  going  to  be  able  to  integrate  that, and  it's  going  to  be  a  natural  log. Now  give  it  away. You  can  go  home  now.  All  right. Cool.  Other  questions?  Good  question. I  don't  know  if  this  red is  really  an  erasable. That's  pretty  okay. Do  damn. All  right.  So  calculate the  entropy  changes  that calculate  the  entropy  changes, entropy  change  that  takes place  during  processes  for  pure  substances. All  right.  So  in  this  problem,  we're shown  here  a  TS  diagram. For  water  here,  okay? And  what  we're  told  is  in  this  problem, we  have  a  piston  cylinder  device  at some  initial  pressure and  some  initial  temperature, that  there's  a  mass  of water  contained  in  there and  that  we're  going  to transfer  heat  into  it,  right? And  based  on  how  I  look  at it  and  also  how  it's  drawn  there, this  is  an  isobaric  process, so  constant  pressure. What's  shown  in  the  diagram  here  is  that we're  starting  off  because it's  a  dome  to  the  left, let  me  ask  you  this what  state  do  you  think  one  is? Told  you  what  dQ by  T  is  when  it  comes  to  changes  in  entropy. So  what  would  you  expect  the  phase of  something  with  low  entropy  to  be? What  did  you  say?  Art?  Comps  liquid. Comssed  liquid.  Yes,  right? Okay,  so  if  we  put  a  lot  of  heat  into  it, right,  you're  going  to  end  up  with something  that  will  not. So  then  it  turns  out  that  at  state  two, you'd  pass  through,  constant  temperature. You  could  infer  from  that, that's  a  liquid  vapor  region  and then  into  the  superheated  vapor. Okay?  Yeah,  so  some  facts  our  P,  P  one  here. So  we're  going  to  go  with  state.  This  is a  horrible  marker.  I  have  more? State.  There  we  go.  That's  better. State  one.  Okay,  State  one. All  right,  so  state  one, we  have  a  P  one, which  is  equal  to  100  and  140  kpa  140  pa, and  a  T  one  that's  equal to  20  degrees  Celsius. And  we  could  double  check  ourselves, but  based  on  how  that  is,  it  appears right  in  that  liquid  region, that's  complete  information,  and  you would  you'd  know  everything about  that  state,  right? You  know  U  one,  you'd  know  V  one. You'd  also  know  S  one, remember  and  that's  little  S that's  kilojoules per  kilogram  per  kelvin,  right? Cool.  Do  do  do. If  you  did,  what  I  can  tell  you  is  that the  S  one  is  equal  to 0.296  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. If  you  want  it  just  for  fun, we  could  also  write  the  enthalpy, which  is  84  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Great. All  right,  can  draw our  piston  cylinder  device, start  to  do  some  analysis  of  this, some  energy  flow,  and  then try  to  figure  out  state  two. So  I  have  this  piston  cylinder. I'm  putting  Q  in. Here's  my  control  volume. All  right.  Oh,  and  how  I  got  this,  right? This  is  Pi  killer. So  if  you  click  on  that  link, you  can  go  through  and  see  how that  property  determination  is  done. All  right,  so  we  have  this. So  I  can  say, right,  so  the  mass  is  constant. So  we  have  the  mass  that's  inside  of  here, which  is  equal  to  1.5  kilograms,  right? So  no  mass  in  or  out. Um,  The  change  in the  energy  of  the  control  volume  here, it  is  equal  to  E  in  minus  R  E  out. The  way  that  energy  can  change  in that,  right,  internal  energy, kinetic  energy  plus potential  energy  is  an  equal to  Q  in  plus  W  in  Q  out  plus  W  out. What  do  we  assume  we  assume neglect  KE  and  PE,  right? And  we  don't  have  any  work  in, and  we  don't  have  any  heat  out,  right? So  what  this  implies,  right, is  that  Delta  U  is  equal  to  what? Q  in,  which  we  know  minus  W  out. What's  W  out  here,  right? PdV.  This  is  the  integral  of  pressure  volume. It's  constant  pressure. So  this  would  come  out, the  integral  of  dv  from  state  one  to  two, and  this  would  then  just  be  equal  to P  times  V  two  minus  V  one. All  right. This  is  V.  We  could  also write  this  as  little  V,  right? I  could  go  mass,  pressure, little  V  two  minus  little  V  one, right,  is  equal  to  the  W  out. All  right.  So  we  can  rewrite  that,  right? I  can  write  and  I  can  rewrite the  U  two  minus  little  one,  right? So  it's  the  change  in  the  internal energy  is  equal  to my  QN  minus  pressure  times  the  mass, specific  volume two  minus  specific  volume  one. You  can  move  this  all to  this  side,  right?  So  I  can  go. U  two  plus  PV two  minus  U  one  plus  PV  one, and  that's  equal  to  QA. All  right.  What  is  this?  That's  state  two. What  is  this?  That's  state  one. E  will  be  at  state  one. And  so  then  M  times  H two  minus  one  is  equal  to  QN. Now  we  know  Qn.  We  know  one because  I  told  you  so,  and  we  know  the  mass. We  don't  know  H  two,  though. So  the  purpose  of  this  exercise is  actually  to  determine  H  two, and  H  two  is  equal  to  QN divided  by  the  mass.  Plus  H  one. That  makes  sense,  because  you'd expect  also  if  a  matting  at  into something  that  the  enthalpy at  the  second  state  would  be greater  than  the  first,  that  tracks. If  you  do  that  and  you  do  the  substitution, what  you're  going  to  see  is  that this  H  two  is  equal  to 2,510.7  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Now  for  state  two,  What do  we  know  about  the  property  at  state  two? We  know  H  two,  H  two  we've  got. What  else  do  we  know  about  state  two? Pressure.  P  two  is  there. H  two,  if  P  two  is  enough  to  determine  S  two. If  I  have  these  two  properties, it's  enough  to  determine  entropy, specific  volume,  so  on  and  so  forth,  right? We  need  to  determine  temperature. The  T  two  from  this  is equal  to 382.4  degrees. Degrees  C.  Is  this  right? Yeah,  it  feels  right.  Yes. That's  that. And  then  the  entropy,  so the  S  two  is  equal  to 6.78  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin? How  do  we  determine  change  in  entropy. So  what  do  we  know  about the  entropy  at  state  one? State  two.  All  right. M  and  it's  S  two  minus  S  one. So  our  mass  is  1.5  kilograms. RS  two  was  6.78 kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin -0.296  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin. And  so  I'd  expect something  close  to  like  nine, ten,  nine,  9.7  right? Kilojoules  per  Kelvin  is the  change  in  entropy  of  that  process,  okay? So  this  is  another  way, especially  when  we  do  cycles, that  you're  going  to  be  calculating changes  in  entropy,  right? So  the  first  one  I showed  you  before  is  I  take something  and  I  transfer  heat  into  it,  okay? Or  I  let  something  maybe  get  cooled. I  calculate  the  entropy of  the  thing  that's  being  cooled, of  the  thing  that's  being  heated, I  sum  them  up  and  I  get  a  total  Delta  S, right?  That's  one  approach. All  right? You'll  classify  that  in problems  when  you  get  with  this. The  second  way  that  you'll  see, and  this  is  especially pertinent  when  we  think  about cycles  is  you're  just  going to  look  for  properties,  right? State  one,  state  two.  I  know  that. And  the  change  in  entropy  is  going  to be  nothing  but  the  M  times that  Delta  S  or the  dot  times  that  Delta  S,  okay? All  right.  And  if  it's  zero for  a  process  like  that,  it's  isentropic. If  that's  like  a  work  transfer  process, that  means  that  it's basically  reversible,  all  right? Okay.  Any  questions  about  that?  All  right. Maybe  just  to  illustrate  what  that  looks like  in  the  actual  notebook, let's  skip  verification. Live  dangerously. All  right. Authorize.  Do  do  do. Right?  So  all  that  you  see,  right? So  I  can  define  a  state  here  like  that, water  underscore  one  dot  S.  That's  it. So  we  bothered  with  this  whole  business  of like  two  independent  variables determining  properties, all  the  other  properties  for  this  reason. We  made  all  of  that  effort, especially  on the  programming  side  because  it's  going to  be  like  bordering  on  trivial  to, like,  compute  these  things,  right? No  interpolation,  no, like  when  I  was  your  age,  it  was  suffering. I  mean,  like,  you  know, I  was  like,  to  do  this. This  is  so  straightforward  and  allows  you  to, like,  think  about  more  than  that. Like,  you  can  look  at more  difficult  things  and  do  it,  right? So  this  hopefully  helps  you to  appreciate  that,  right? Just  data  S  and  you  happen. Okay? Good.  Sweet.  All  right. Good.  So  your  turn. So  take  this  5  minutes,  a  neighbor. Let's  see  how  much  of  this  you  absorbed  if your  entropy  was  zero  or  if  it  increased. All  right. And  if  you  don't, then  we'll  talk  through  it,  all  right? I'll  circulate  if  you  have  questions. Is  it  working  or  no? 02,  is  it  working  or  no?  Thank  you  very  much. Any  questions? Good  questions from  there.  Yes.  Yeah. So  if  you  either  of  those  things, are  there  any  assumptions  you  can  make  of the  iron  is  a  large  lake that  would  be  helpful. Exactly.  The  temperature. One  color  questions? Moving  to  the  hot  seat. I It  seems  easy,  though. It  builds  upon  everything  else. Thank  you. What  are  you  doing? Actually Oh. All  right. Submit  an  answer.  Any  answer. Seven.  Okay.  Cool. Let's  get  to  15,  15, and  that's  like  we're  at  a  quorum. All  right. 14.  There  we  go. All  right.  You  negotiated  me. So  what  is  the  entropy  change  in the  iron  block?  Okay. We  got  a  majority  at  minus  ten  in kind  of  a  distribution distribution  around  that. Okay,  let's  start  maybe  here. What  were  you  guys'  thoughts? You  Na? Mana.  What  did  you  guys  do? We  just  have  equal  sensibility. MC  Delta  T.  I'm  writing  this  all for  CV  one,  right?  Okay. Values.  Let's  set  this  up. So  we  have  MC,  and what  I'm  going  to  write is  the  first  temperature. The  first  temperature  is what  I'm  calling  as  T one  for  control  volume  one, Roman  numeral  one,  and  then,  I'm  sorry. Let  me  write  it  the  other  way. This  should  be  what? This  should  be  what's  your  first  temperature? Let's  start  with  that  T  final  minus  T  zero, MC,  what  was  your  final  temperature? 5285.  Basically  the  temperature  of  the  water. 500,  500. C  is  given,  M  is  given.  What  is  the  mass? 50.  So  you  have  50  kilograms  times  the  C, which  is  0.45  kilojoules per  kilogram  per  Kelvin. And  then  here  we  have,  215. 215  Kelvin  difference. And  what's  your  number? 4,837. And  this  is  a  negative  because  it's a  negative  temperature. And  what's  your  units? In  joules?  Okay.  Kilojoules  or joules.  Kilojoules. Okay.  So  we  have  4,837 kilojoules  that  came  out  as  heat. Okay.  And  how  do  you  get  to  entropy? And  then Yes.  Temperature. Okay,  so  then  what you've  done  here  is  you  have Q  then  divided  by  what? 500.  Kelvin.  Okay. So  then  what  is  that?  That's  5000/510. Roughly  ten.  Okay. Negative.  Anyone  else  have something  different?  Your  name. So  Q  T  is  changing. Let's  say  T  is  not  a  constant. Okay,  so  how  did  you  do  it? So  I'm  going  to  walk  through  it. Now  I'm  going  to  go  slow, I'm  still  learning  to  walk  here. So  basically  what  you're  doing  then, so  then  I  can  say  this  is Delta  S  of  control  volume. What  I'm  calling  control  volume  one  there  is then  equal  to  the  integral  of  what? What's  it's  going  to  be  Yeah. Okay,  so  I'm  going  to  put  T  here. Yes.  So  what  do  you  write  for  dq? So  if  I  do  that  if  I  take a  dq  and  I  say  it  is constant,  what's  going  to  happen  to  the  Q? Yeah.  You're  on  the  right  track. Other  thoughts  to  this. There  we  go.  M  C  dt,  right? So  changes  in  heat  transferred  are  related  to the  mass  times the  specific  heat  times  changes in  temperature. If  M  and  C,  I  think  you  had  it  in  words, man.  I  feel  like  you  said  it. I  almost  wrote  it. I  was  like,  Yeah,  you  said  it,  okay? If  you  take  the  M  and  the  C out  of  that  integral,  right? Let's  say  they're  constants, which  they  are,  right? A  lot  of  these  things  are  pretty constant  for  the  purposes  of  this  class. That  integral  is  then  just  C  natural  log, and  let's  say  that  we're  integrating from  state  one  to  state  two. So  that's  going  to  be  the  natural  log  of  um, T  one,  T  two, four,  control  volume  one. That's  the  key.  The  temperature  changes, and  therefore,  if  you  do  it. I  think  if  you  substitute  the  numbers  in, you  Um,  I  can  check  it. Hold  on  a  second  what  I  had  put  in. So  I  have  a  number  that  is, if  I  put  in  50  kilograms, 0.45  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kelvin, and  then  the  natural  log  of  285/500. This  is  a  positive  or  a  negative  number. Negative,  right?  So  you  have the  negative  from  that and  then  that  contribution. And  so  what  I  have  here  is approximately  negative  13  kilojoules per  Kelvin. So  what's  interesting  from  that is  to  an  order  of  magnitude  sense, you  are  right  with your  approach  on  this  scale,  but  to  be  exact, you  have  to  relate changes  in  heat  to  changes  in temperature  to  complete  that  integral, right,  right? So  I  can't  pull  the  T  out  of  the  integral. Therefore,  I  have  to  represent  dq by  temperature  changes. That's  the  name  of  the  game, and  then  you  can  evaluate, okay?  Questions  about  that. No  dissenting  views. Okay,  so  the  next  part  I have  is  the  change  in  entropy  of  the  water, I  have  negative  zero, and  then  a  number, a  range  of  values. So  let's  go  through  this. What  did  you  guys  have  in  front  here? How  did  you  approach  this  problem? All  right,  D,  by  this,  we  integrate. Is  temperature  a  constant  or  no? It  is.  So  that  one's  easy. You  basically  take  one  over T,  integral  of  dQ. What  value  of  T  do  we  take  here? Two. 285. So  basically  the  temperature of  the  water,  right? So  what  we  call  is  what  I'm going  to  call  is  T  one  of  control  volume  two. And  so,  yeah,  basically, this  is  then  going  to  be Q  divided  by  T  one  of  two, which  is  then  our  Q  divided  by  285  Kelvin, and  that's  going  to  be  Delta  S  two,  right? So,  what  was  the  value  of Q  that  you  guys  computed  before? You  had  4,000  by  5,000 there  divided  by  h  300, so  something  a  little  more  than  ten. So  I  can  imagine  maybe  some  numbers  that  are sitting  10-20  as  the  value,  right? And  the  last  part,  the  entropy  generated, all  you  do  is  you  add  negative, the  decrease  of  the  entropy of  this  to  the  increase  of  this, and  that's  the  total,  all  right? I'll  check  the  numbers  on  this, and  then  we  can  start  with this  next  time,  okay? We  have  many  lectures  on  entropy. I  think  we  have  five  in  total, the  longest,  all  right.
