Please  let  us  know.  Okay,  so specific  heat,  what  is  specific  heat? Hopefully,  of  the  intuition  that  if  you  take something  and  you  transfer  heat  to  it, it  warms.  The  temperature  goes  up. And  the  parameter  that  tells you  how  much  that  temperature  goes  up, is  this  constant  specific  heat. So  if  you  look  at  something  like  iron  and  you transfer  a  certain  amount of  heat  into  the  system, you'll  see,  let's  say  this  temperature responds  here  of  ten  degrees  Celsius. You  do  the  same  thing with  water  and  amazingly. Well,  first  of  all, of  course,  the  temperature  goes  up. But  what's  interesting  about  water  is that  it  holds  quite  a  lot  of  energy, and  has  a  very  high  specific  heat. All  right.  Um  Yeah,  it's  just  a  nice  thing. So  Anyway,  they  vary. They're  not  all  constant,  so  it depends  on  the  nature  of  the  substance. Depends  on  how  energy  is  stored. We  talked  about  things  like  rotational, like  those  ping  pong  balls  we  saw. Certain  molecules  can  spin, they  can  vibrate,  things  like  that. So  the  more  of those  modes  you  have,  generally, the  higher  the  specific  heat  you  will  get. In  terms  of  a  definition,  as  I  said  before, if  we  put  something  on  the  left hand  side  here  like  heat, so  this  could  be  heat  transferred  in or  heat  transferred  out, the  temperature  response,  or the  temperature  after minus  the  temperature  before. We  multiply  by  the  mass  and  by  some  quantity, which  will  define  on  the  specific  heat, we  will  be  able  to  say  how  much  heat  we transferred  in  or  out. We  knew  before,  the  heat that  we  there  transfer  in  depends  on how  the  process  is  executed. And  we  speak about  two  types  of  specific  heat. There  is  called  CP  and  CV,  right? So  CP  is a  specific  heat  at  constant  pressure, and  there  is  CV,  and  that's a  specific  heat  at  constant  volume,  right? Is  relevant  for  gases because  you  can  imagine that  in  some  processes, like  you  think  about your  automobile  engine,  right? So  if  you  take  that,  you'll  have a  state  where  you will  transfer  a  ton  of heat  into  the  system  with no  change  in  the  volume,  right? When  you  fire  it. So  the  volume  doesn't  change. So  it's  isochoric. You  fire  that  baby  and 80  of  temperature  response. An  engineer,  you  might  want  to know  how  that  is  done, and  that's  why  you  will  use  CV. There's  other  ones  where  the  pressure is  constant  and  you're  looking  at how  the  energy  is  transferred  or the  heat  is  transferred  and  the  temperature response,  and  that's  useful. So  this  isn't  some  mathematical  exercise. This  has  value  and  is  useful  for  the  reasons that  I  mentioned.  Okay. So  if  we  first  start  with the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume, first  of  all,  to  arrive, this  will  make  a  couple  of  assumptions. We're  going  to  deal  with  a  system our  closed  volume  system, which  we've  been  working  with  all  week. All  right?  So  the  volume  is  constant. It's  stationary,  so  we don't  have  kinetic  energy, you  know,  terms  coming  in. Close  volume.  So  we  have  a  volume. We  say  we  have  a  mass,  this  Delta  T, and  we  have  this  CV,  this  constant. If  you  were  to  take  the  mass, multiply  it  by  the  Delta  T  and  times  the  CV, that  would  be  exactly  the  heat  transfer  in. I  want  to  stress  this  that  In  these  problems, you're  always  dealing with  temperature  differences, right? Like,  heat  flows  or  I'm  sorry, heat  is  transferred because  of  temperature  gradients. You're  always  dealing  with,  like,  I have  a  high  temperature,  I  have  a  low, or  I  have  a  low  and  a  high, and  there's  a  difference,  and  we  don't  care. So  when  dealing  with  the  difference, why  does  that  matter? It  matters  because  you  can talk  about  things  being  in degrees  Celsius  or  degrees  Kelvin. Obviously,  the  Celsius  scale is  something  we  developed, and  it's  nice  for  us. The  Calvin  one  is  the  absolute  scale, but  a  difference  of  like two  degrees  Celsius  and a  difference  of  two  Kalvin, there's  a  difference  between the  difference,  right? So  you're  going  to see  you  normally  dealt  the  t  with  it. So  to  derive  this, we  can  then  take  within  the  system. So  we  can  say how  much  energy  are  we  transferring  in? Subtract,  how  much  energy  we  transfer  out. And  then  that's  the  change  of  the  energy within  within  the  control  volume. And  I'm  writing  little  E  because  this  is  on a  per  per  mass  basis. It's  say  kilojoules.  A  kilogram. You  can  put  that  in  a  differential  form. So  we  put  the  little  in exact  differential  Delta  with  that. And  the  change  in the  energy  in  the  system,  then, because  we  don't  have  that  change in  potential  energy, we  don't  have  the  change in  the  kinetic  energy. All  we  have  here  is  the  Delta  U, according  to  our  equation  for the  conservation  of  energy  for the  control  volume.  So  we  have  little  DU. All  right. And  by  definition,  this  little  DU is  equal  to,  as  I  just  explained, is  equal  to  then  the  little  d  t times  the  specific  heat  for  constant  volume. No.  All  right. And  so  you  can  rearrange  that, and  you  can  write  it  in  this  form. So  if  we  rearrange,  and  again, this  is  written  for  constant  volume. So  the  DU,  which  is  divided  by the  DT,  and  we  have  the  CV. This  can  also  be  written  in  this  notation. So  how  many  of  you  remember  what  happened? Go  ahead. Yeah,  so  Little  D,  imagine  Okay. So  right, imagine  I'm  at  some  state  here,  positionally. I'm  at  the  base  of  some  Hill,  right? And  right? There's  different  routes  I  can  take  to get  to  the  top  point,  right? I  can  go  at,  you  know, different  speeds  and  all  of  that. So  the  point  is  that  how  I  get there  what  depends  on  my  process. And  when  we  want  to  take, so  if  that's our  position  variable  S  in  physics, we're  in  a  physics  building,  so position  is  S  in  physics. If  I  want  to  analyze  the  the  differential  of this  path  because  it can  vary  between  the  states. Instead  of  writing  you know,  an  exact  differential, we  write  this  Delta  S as  kind  of  like  a  warning, right?  As  a  warning. Okay.  But  we  talked about  some  of  this  as  well  for, like, irreversibility  and  some  of  these  examples. So,  yeah,  that's  the  idea with  the  inexact  differential. So  it's  path  dependent. Other  questions?  Okay,  so  that's  good. So  let  we  have  this  notation. You  can  divide  by  the  DT. So  sticking  with  our  notation and  clarifications  on  that. Um  Who  remembers  this? Is  like  CLC  three,  I  don't  know in  California  what  Alright. So  you  have  partial  derivatives,  okay? So  we're  writing  now. So  here  I  wrote  an  exact  differential  D, and  I'm  writing  here  at  constant  volume. You  can  also  represent  this  with the  partial  derivative  notation. So  the  specific  heat at  constant  volume  is  equal  to the  partial  derivative of  internal  energy  with respect  to  temperature  for  constant  volume. So  when  I  write  that  little  V,  or  I'm  sorry, when  I  write  the  V,  down here  on  the  bottom  right  there, that  means  that  it's  kept  constant. Right? You're  going  to  do the  same  thing  for  pressure. That's  why  we  do  it  because this  internal  energy,  right? It  could  be  varying  with  pressure, it  could  be  varying  with  volume, and  so  to  be  correct  with  that, then  we  write  the  little  V. Okay.  I'm  getting  some  blank  stairs, but  I  assume  that  that's  okay. I'll  work  through  it. You  can  rearrange  and  then  write  it  with this  partial  derivative  notation. So  the  specific  heat  at constant  pressure  is  equal  to the  partial  derivative  of  enthalpy  with respect  to  temperature  at constant  pressure.  All  right? Anyways,  we'll  get  to  the  point. We'll  do  an  example  in  a  second  using  this. So  the  take  off  message  is  that  CV,  right? So  the  specific  heat  at constant  volume  is  a  measure  of the  change  in  the internal  energy  of  your  system, and  the  specific  heat  CP. So  the  specific  heat  at  constant  pressure has  a  measure  of  the  change  of the  enthalpy  of,  of  your  system. Okay?  And  like  we had  seen  before  for the  example  with  the  enthalpy. So  the  enthalpy  is  the  internal  energy  plus the  pressure  times  the  volume. You  can  get  a  sense during  the  heat  transfer  here. If  I'm  transferring  heat  into  a  system that  can  expand,  right? I  can  have  a  P  Delta  V, that  you'll  have  to  account  for  that. It  might  take  you  might  get  a  sense that  to  get  to  the  same  temperatures  there. For  the  CP,  you  might  have  to  transfer a  bit  more  heat  into that  system  because  you got  other  stuff  going  on. Yes,  please. Yeah.  I  think  that's  exactly  right. When  I  put  this  equal  to  this  here, this  is  meaning  that  we're  doing  it  in this  quasi  equilibrium, very  slow  manner  there. Other  questions.  All  right. So  again,  the  units, coming  back  to  that  point  about  the  Delta T.  So  the  consequence  of  the  fact  that you're  dealing  with  temperature differences  and  not like  an  absolute  temperature like  we  would  with  a  state,  right? Because  when  I'm  transferring  heat, I'm  usually  going  between  two  states. So  I'm  going  between  two  states. You  will  sometimes  see  the  units  of specific  heat  being  s  per  kilogram. Calvin  or  jules  per  kilogram degrees  Celsius.  All  right? And  I  mean,  I'd recommend  always  being  consistent with  what  you  do, but  you  can  play  a little  fast  with  your  rules, like  here,  in  the  sense that  you're  dealing  with  a  delta  T, and  adelta  T  of  one  degree  Celsius or  one  degree  Calvin,  you  don't  care. It's  one  degree  in  that  scale.
