What's  going  on?  No. It's horizontal would  be  We're  also. Really?  Yeah. Yeah. My  computer It's  like  a  weird  color. I I know  what All  right. I  got  210.  Let  me  get  started. So  we're  going  to  continue  with exergy  today  and the  application  of  it.  All  right. So  our  learning  objectives, so  we're  going  to  develop  an  exergy control  volume  analysis  and  we're  going  to apply  it  to  a  chip  cooling. So  what's  called  liquid  cooling  and a  chips  is  a  modern  form of  how  we  cool  CPUs  and  GPUs. We'll  do  one  on  the  turbine, and  then  I'll  do  one  on  the  heat exchange  of  the  power  plant. I'll  wait  until  I  get  excited, and  we'll  wait  actually  until  the  next, the  next  couple  of  chapters when  we  get  into  power  cycles, and  then  you'll  be  able  to  do  that. In  terms  of  the  quiz, everything  will  be  uploaded at  the  latest  tomorrow  morning. Hopefully  tonight  we  went  through, and,  overall,  I  think  I'm  pretty  satisfied. All  right,  so  recycling  waste  heat. So  you  may  or  may  not  know you  do  know  if  you  read  any  amount of  news  with data  centers,  demand  for  compute. We  have  a  huge  amount  of  pressure,  you  know, put  on  the  electricity  grid  in terms  of  running  computers. Right?  So  you  take  electricity, which  is  the  highest  form  of  exergy,  right? So  the  highest  form  of exergy  is  anything  that  can  do  work, right?  They're  equivalent,  right? A  W  in  would  also  be  an  in, right,  when  it  comes  to  that. So  electricity  is  because it  can  be  transferred  in  as  work, right,  that's  the  highest  form  of  exergy. You  run  it  in,  you  compute  something. All  right?  And  I  represent  this  as a  poster,  because  that's  all  it  is,  right? Essentially,  you  do  that,  you  compute, but  everything  that  goes  in  to compute  becomes  heat,  right? It's  transferred  basically  as  heat. The  way  we  used  to  cool this  is  a  lot  of  air,  right? A  lot  of  fans.  We'd  like move  air  and  blow  it  over. Um,  And  then,  you  know, in  recent  years  and  stuff, people  have,  you  know, recent  decades  and  stuff, people  have  looked  in  and  figured  out  that, hey,  not  only  with  air, but  this  could  also  be done  with  liquid,  right? And  that  really,  so  the balance  when  people  would  look  at  that  is, right,  I  have  some  energy  in  to  compute. And  from  a  first  law  analysis, if  I  don't  want  this  thing  to  melt  down, I'm  going  to  take  all  that  heat  off. So  people  would  look  at  this,  and  in  general, when  they  analyze  these  systems, they  think  about  the  first  law of  thermodynamics,  like  that. I  put  this  in  and it's  heat  and  I  take  it  off. You  can,  however,  take  a  second  law  approach. You  can  use  cragy  and  that's  the  purpose  of this  example  is  not  to  just take  a  first  law  analysis  of  this, but  a  second  law  and  see  if  there  are opportunities  to  use  this,  alright? This  isn't  just  fiction.  So  this  was  done. So  my  former  building,  when  I  was  at  Itaj was  partially  heated  by this  thing  called  aquasar. You  can  read  it  on  Wiki.  But  essentially, what  you  would  do  here  is you'd  have  these  cold  plates. So  this  is  like  a  blade, a  server  blade  that you  would  take  in  and  out. You'd  bring  in  water,  All  right. And  he  would  be  transferred  from the  hotter  chips  into the  water  and  then  taken and  basically  taken  back  out,  okay? So  that's  nothing  terribly  innovative. That's  what  you  would  do,  you  know,  if you  were  like,  Hey,  that's  hot. Let's  bring,  liquid  to  it. But  what  was  interesting  about  this  is that  they  didn't  run the  chips  at  room  temperature,  okay? So  the  point  of  this  device is  that  they  actually  let  the  chips  run  hot. And  so  then  you  transfer  heat into  a  fluid  that's  warm,  okay? All  right.  So  hold  that  thought  for  a  second. And  the  nice  part  about  it  is  if  you  do  that, you'll  take  hot  water  that  makes  it  even slightly  hotter,  and  then  you  can  use  that. That  water  then  has  utility  to  it,  okay? Higher  exergy,  all  right? Okay.  And  you  can  do  carbon  neutral  compute. So  all  these  challenges  of,  like, water  cooling  and  all  of  that,  fine. Like  if  you  did  this, you  wouldn't  have  you  know, you'd  solve  a  lot  of  problems if  you  thought,  like,  with  the  second  law. Alright,  so  what  does  this  look  like? So  if  I  was  going  to  represent  again, kind  of  a  simplified  version for  the  purposes  of  this  analysis. So  here's  our  toaster here,  so  the  computer  chip. That's  mounted  to  what's called  the  cold  plate. So  this  copper  thing  that  you see  here  is  called  the  cold  plate. I'm  bringing  a  fluid  in. This  is  water,  in  this  case. And  then  I  have the  fluid  that's  basically  exiting  here. The  inlet,  let's  call  it. I  think  I'm  going  to  call  it  state  one. Let  me  just  clarify. No  idea.  Okay,  we're  going  to  call  it  one. We're  going  to  call  it  two  for  this. And  we'll  leave  it  up  like  that  for  now, but  we  can  think  about  a  couple  of different  control  volumes  when  we actually  to  do  the  analysis. So  what  we'd  like  to  do,  so  again, we're  given  what  we'd  like  to  determine. We'd  like  to  determine  The  following  things. We'd  like  to  determine the  second  law  efficiency. So  what  I'm  going  to  call  is  Eta underscore  Roman  numeral  two. We  want  to  determine  the  Xergy  terms,  right? And  the  other  thing  we  want  to determine  is  to  calculate the  second  law  efficiency  as a  function  of  T  one,  right? So  as  a  function  of  the  inlet temperature  of  the  water. So  those  are  the  three  things  that  we're going  to  determine,  okay? Two. Okay.  And  I'll  go  through  some  of  the  things that  are  given  as  it  naturally  comes  up  here, but,  like, there's  obviously  for  this  analysis, I'm  not  showing  you  a  pump. So  I'm  just  analyzing  this  as  a  device. I  could,  of  course,  do  a  wider  one that  looks  at  the  different  components. I'm  going  to  make  some  assumptions about  those  and  put  them  in. Okay?  Again,  our  substance here  is  water.  Okay. Mm  hmm.  What  are our  assumptions  we  can look  at  maybe  we'll  draw. We  can  draw  in  green. This  is  maybe  our  control  is like  our  control  volume  here. Like  that.  That's  our  CV. All  right.  Okay. All  right,  so  we  have an  assumption  of  a  control  volume, we  got  mass  that  crosses  the  boundaries. Properties,  we're  going  to  determine  with Pi  kilore  because  this is  going  to  involve  water. I'm  not  going  to  use,  I'm not  going  to  use  that  as  an  alternative because  I'm  not  boiling  water  here. A  CP  Delta  T might  be  a  sensible  approach,  right, for  computing  the  let's  say  the  work that's  transferred  then  is  heat  into  there. It's  a  steady  flow  process,  okay? So  the  mass  flow  rate  in  is  equal  to the  mass  that's  out,  right? The  work,  right, that  I'm  transferring  electrically here  is  then  going  to  be balanced  then  with  heat that's  generated  and  carried  out. With  no  shaft  work.  And  because  this is  an  isobaric  device,  the  pressure, there  is  no  pressure  drop  across  1-2.  Right? So  let's  start  off  with  our  first  one. So  the  first  thing  is  that  the  definition  of what  we  call  as  the  second  law  efficiency  is, again,  the  ratio  of things  that  we  have  to  spend, right,  to  things  that  we  like,  right? And  in  exergy  analysis, this  is  what  we  call as  Xergy  Exergy  expended. All  right. And  that's  in  the  denominator, and  then  in  the  numerator,  it's Exergy  recovered. And  I'll  get  into  a  second  what  we  mean by  expended  and  recovered, but  it's  not  so  different  from  what  we  did before  when  we  were talking  about  efficiencies,  right? That  would  be  like  maybe  Q  in  and  W  net  out. A  exergy  that  could  be,  you  know, recovered  in  a  lot  of  systems might  be  like  a  workout  term,  right? Here,  we'll  get  into  the  meaning of  what  Rgy  recovered  is,  though. Okay,  before  I  get  into  that, we  can  look  at  just  a  simple  example of  a  heater,  though. So  if  I  just  go  in  without  as  an  aside, so  if  I  look  at  a  simple I  can  do  a  simple  heater.  All  right? And  so  what  a  simple  heater might  look  like  is,  again, I  have  this  maybe  a  resistor, you  know,  here,  okay? And  so  maybe  this is  my  you  know,  control  volume. So  I  transfer  some  work  in. So  there's  basically  a  W  electrical  in, and  then  I'll  have  a  write a  Q  out  associated  with  that. So  right,  I'll  have  a  W  in, which  is  the  electrical,  and  then, you  know,  a  Q  out  of  that. So  the  second  law  efficiency of  this  simplified  case, so  we  can  call  this  heater  or  maybe toaster  and  it  toaster  is, again,  we  can  deal  with you,  we'll  deal  with  rate  terms. So  the  rate  that  we  transfer  energy in  and  the  rate  that  we  transfer  heat  out. So  there's  your  udt  recovered,  right? There's  your  X  dot  expended.  All  right. So  what  do  you think  that  we're  expending  here? So  in  our  toast  or  our  heater  example, what  am  I  putting  in?  Work,  right? So,  and  work  is  the  same,  right? So  work  is  the  highest  form  of  energy. And  what  it  means  is  that  it's  also  exergy. So  these  are  interchangeable. All  right?  So  here  I'll  have  a  W  dot. I  call  it  w.in.  So  here's  my  w.in. And  then  what  I'm  recovering  here  out  of  it, so  what  comes  out  of  this  system then  is  this  heat,  okay? So  I'll  go  X  dot,  heat.  All  right. Surrounding  this  heater,  and  I  have  to define  some  dead  state  conditions. So  T  zero  is  the  dead  state  temperature, which  we  usually  would  take  as,  like,  maybe, I  don't  know  what  25  Celsius and  a  dead  state  pressure, which  is,  you  know,  1  atmosphere. How  do  we  define  the  cragy  of  heat? Does  anyone  remember?  How  do we  state  the  quality  of  heat. So  what  is  the  formula  that  tells us  the  maximum  work I  can  get  out  for  a  unit  of  heat  in? What  is  the  most  efficient  engine? Karno. Okay?  So  when  you  think  about  this  with  heat, you  think  Carn,  right? So  the  X  dot  heat,  in  this  case,  then, is  going  to  be  this  q.aq  dot out  here  times  essentially  something that  resembles  a  cardo  efficiency, one  minus  the  dead  state  temperature divided  by  H,  okay? All  right?  Now,  I  don't  know. And  so  that  would  be  the  numerator, and  then  our  denominator  then  would  be dot  would  be  w  dot,  right? Okay. Yes.  And  so  from a  first  law  point  of  view,  right? So  if  I  have  a  steady  flow  system  here, so  I  have  a  steady  flow  device, what  is  coming  in  is  equal  to what  is  coming  out  there? What  do  you  suspect  you could  say  about  q  dot  out  and w.in?  It  should  be  the  same,  right? And  so  what  you'll  see  in  this kind  of  simplify  it  again, toaster  example  is  that  this  is  going  to  be one  minus  the  dead  state  temperature  T zero  divided  by  the  H.  Now, H  in  here  is  not  defined,  right? TH  would  be  something  you'd  have  to  take e109  and  figure  out then  heat  transfer  to  figure  out  what it  would  be.  But  what  does  this  say? What  from  this  formula if  I  look  at  the  second  law efficiency  for  this  formula, it's  like  a  take  home  message? I  name?  Z. Zach.  So  Zach  said  something  very  astute, which  is  that  if I  run  my  toaster  at  a  higher  temperature, and  let's  say  I  blow  air  over,  you  know, or  if  I'm  able  to  heat  up,  you  know, air  here  that's coming  if  air  coming  in  here  is coming  in  at  basically  a  higher  temperature, then  this  is  going  to  behave more  efficiently,  okay? So  the  warmer  is  the  air  that  I  bring  in, and  then  I  transfer  heat  into  it. The  more  efficient  is  going  to  be this  process  of  electrical  work in  to  heat  out. And  this  is  done  all  the  time,  right? So,  you  think  about  every  oven,  you  know, electrical  oven  basically  operates  on this,  you  know,  on  this  principle. Of  course,  those  are  less  efficient  because you're  bringing  in  cold  air and  you're  heating  them  up. So  you're  pretty  much killing  all  your  energy, but  you  do  get  nice  cooked  food. But  if  you  want  this  to  be  more  efficient, then  you  should  heat  up air  that's  already  kind of  kind  of  warmer,  all  right? So  that's  an  aside,  but  that  kind of  tells  you  where  we're  headed. So  that's  the  simple  heater,  simple  toaster. Example.  So  for  the  case  of electronics  cooling,  I  want  to  make  sure. Yeah,  I'm  still  recording  pretty  well. For  the  case  of  electronics  cooling, it's  the  same  formula. So  we  have  this. Again,  it's  the  ratio  of  X  dot recovered  divided  by  X  dot  expended. All  right.  All  right. Um,  All  right. So  reflecting  on our  example  with  our  toaster, what  is  one  type  of  exergy or  what  do  you  think  is the  exergy  that  we're  recovering  here? Zach? Yeah,  so  you're  going  to  have there  is  your  X  dot, we're  going  to  call  it  here  is X  dot  outlet,  okay? And  so  what  is  the  outlet? Right?  Right?  So  this  is  what's leaving  the  system  here  is  at  state  two. Hopefully,  that's  visible.  It  is. And  so  this  is the  energy  that  we're  going  to  recover. This  fluid  stream  that's like  leaving  here  is  going  to actually  be  the  exergy that  we  recover,  right? So  DOT  outlet,  right? Okay,  what  are  we  expending? So  what  forms  of  exergy or  what  exergy  terms  do  you think  that  what  are things  that  we're  spending  here? What  are  things  that  are  going into  the  control  volume? This  side  of  the  room.  David,  first, since  that's  what  I  saw, but  it's  not  fair,  okay? So,  it's  actually  not  a  question  about  this. It's  more  of  a  b  question  because I  see  Q  times  one minus  over  T.  You also  mentioned  that  trogy is  equal  to  ST,  right? Extrogy  is  equal  to  S.  No. I  don't  remember  that. Maybe  I  can  hallucinate, like,  a  large  language  model. I  don't  think  I  said  it,  though. I  will  tell  you  this  Exergy,  okay? What  is  the  point  of  Exergy? Exergy  is  like  I  have  some  state. What  is  the  maximum  work  I  can  get  out  from this  state  going  to the  dead  state,  all  right? That's,  you  know,  anything  that's like  reversible  um,  you  know, done  in  a  reversible  way,  you  know, there  is  going  to  be  work  is basically  ergy  interchangeable,  right? Reversible  work  is  exergy. Heat,  when  talking  about sergy  is  heat,  all  right? Work  in  heat  from the  first  law  are  equivalent. But  from  the  second  law,  we know  they're  not,  okay? Um,  and  so  the  way  that  we correct  for  that  is  we  use  that Q  dot  multiplied  by  something  that  resembles, in  my  opinion,  kind  of a  Karno  efficiency  because  kno  efficiency, right  is  network  out  divided  by  heat  in. Okay?  And  so  if  I  had  this  efficiency, I  could  simply  say,  Well,  you  know, I  could  convert  kind  of  that  maximum work  out  to  the  heat  one,  you  know, through  something  that  resembles  kind of  an  ET  one  minus  T, the  cold  temperature,  which  is the  dead  temperature  of the  hot  temperature,  right? The  third  thing  is that  worked  energy,  heat  energy. We  know  that  fluids  can  also  possess  energy. They  also  possess  energy. And  all  we  do  is  we  take  flow  energy and  we  minus  all  of  our terms  by  the  dead  state. So  H  minus  H  naught minus  T  naught  times  minus  naught. So  maybe  this  s  term that  you're  saying  is  in  that, but  it's  a  longer  form,  okay?  Yes,  please. Presley,  right?  Okay.  So  actually generated  three  times. Okay,  that's  a  fair  formula,  right? So  the  dead  state  here, X  dot  destroyed  destroyed  is equal  to  dot  gen  times  T  naught,  right? So  when  we  did  entropy  generation, if  we  multiply  entropy  generation  of a  device  or  a  system  times the  dead  state  temperature, we'll  get  the  extrag  destroyed,  okay? And  that's  useful  because then  I'm  not  going  to  use  that  right  now, but  you  could  use  that  if  you knew  how  much  your  original  was. But  that's  the  relationship  maybe that  David's  mentioning. David,  that's  the  TS  thing. Okay.  All  right. Now,  I  don't  remember.  Kai?  Okay. All  right,  so  the  point is  that  we  have  an  outlet. Now  what  I'm  asking  is  for this  system,  what  are  inlets? What  are  things  that  we're  spending? Yes,  please. Electrical  work. Electrical  work,  right? So  you  could  have  here  an  X  dot,  right? I'll  do  X  dot  E,  right? Electrical.  What  else?  Not  Kai, not  David,  not  Zach. Not  Presley.  You. Say  it  again.  Mass  flow,  right? You  could  have  a,  right? So  we  can  have  an  ex  dot,  right? We  had  the  mass  flow  of the  outlet,  right  here,  you  know, but  we  can  have  the  ex  dot of  the  inlet.  All  right? What's  something  I  haven't  drawn  here, but  you  think  you  might  need  to pass  a  fluid  through  that  cold  plate? What  causes  a  fluid  to move?  Yes,  please.  What? Pressure.  And  what  creates pressure  besides  me? A  pump,  right?  You  can  have an  dot  of,  you  know,  okay. All  right,  right?  So  this  is  it. So  what  am  I  what  am  I  recovering? I'm  recovering  hot  water,  okay? So  that's  the  exergy  of  my  outlet.  All  right? What  I'm  calling  here, maybe  just  to  be  clear, I'll  call  this  as  outlet. All  right.  And  here,  I'll  call this  as  inlet  there. Yeah,  right?  So  we  have  here, outlet,  and  here  we  have  inlet. And  I'll  compute  properties  at  that  outlet  as state  two  and  that  inlet  as  the  state  one. I  haven't  drawn  a  pump. But  let's  say  to  define the  second  law,  probably, it  makes  sense  to  consider  the  pump, moving  an  incompressible,  dense  fluid. So  it's  not  going  to  be  a  huge  penalty. And  then  this  problem, I'm  just  going  to  give  you a  value  that  is  there. And  you  ultimately  want  to  maximize. You  want  to  maximize  this. Okay,  so  Let's  deal  right  now. So  with  the  electrical  cragy, that's  going  to  be  pretty  clear. So  we're  told  that  there's 100  watts  of electrical  power  is  used  for  the  chip. The  chip.  All  right. And  what  that  means  is  that X  dot  X  dot  electrical is  equal  to  100  watts,  right? Electricity  is  Xergy,  right? It's  the  highest  form of  work  that  we  can  have. So  that  we've  dealt  with. Um,  We  can  deal  with  the  pump  now. So  for  the  pump,  we're  told  that the  power  of  the  P  dot, so  let's  call  that  as  the  power  of the  pump  is  equal  to  the  pressure  drop times  the  volumetric  flow  rate. They  say  that  this  volumetric  flow  rate is  one  liter  per  minute, which  is  kind  of  intense  if  you  think  about how  small  it  is. And  from  this  analysis, what  we're  told  is  that  it  consumes  that this  P  dot  is  equal  to  0.24  excuse  me,  0.24. Wow,  I'm  really  okay. 0.24  watts.  All? Okay.  And  then  this  will deal  with  our  pump  term,  right? So  basically,  our  X  dot  pump is  going  to  be  the  electrical  work that  we  transfer  in  to  do  the  pump, so  our  P  dot,  which  is  going  to  be equal  to  0.24  watts. All  right,  that's  fine. Mm  hm  mm. All  right,  so  we've  dealt  with? So  we've  dealt  with  the  electrical  term, we've  dealt  with  the  pump  term, and  now  we  need  to  deal  with  the  flow  term. So  our  flow  term,  does  it  make  sense? What  does  it  make  sense  to  do? This  is  kind  of  a  monster, so  maybe  I'll  slide  that  over  like  that. So  the  general  formula for  flow  exergy,  right? So  flow  is  equal to  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  fluid,  right? So  let's  say  it's  a  steady  flow  device. So  we're  talking  about an  outlet  or  an  inlet  here. M  dot  enthalpy  of  the  fluid  minus the  dead  state  enthropy so  the  enthalpy  at  T  zero  and  P zero  minus  the  dead state  temperature  T  naught, entropy  of  the  fluid, specific  entropy  of  the  fluid  minus the  specific  dead  state  entropy. All  right. How  do  we  analyze  this  in  practice? The  day  state  temperature should  be  given  in  the  problem. You  should  know  P  zero  and  T  zero. With  that,  you're going  to  be  able  to  determine  well, T  zero,  you'll  then  know, and  then  the  enthalpy and  the  entropy  you'll  get, you  know,  PCO  and  that. And  for  the  specific  entropy and  entropy  of  the  fluid, it's  the  same  thing  as  before. You  need  to  know  the  state,  right? Just  like  we  practiced  before, you'll  be  able  to  get the  enthalpy  and  the  entropy by  knowing  the  state. And  the  MDOT,  again, that  would  be  something  that's  probably a  given  or  determined. Mm  hmm. Yeah.  So  let's  look  at  this. So  again,  we  could  write  this  as  X  dot  inlet, right,  which  is  going  to  be  the  dot,  again, a  steady  flow  device,  right? H  one  minus  H  naught  minus  T naught  one  minus  naught  X  dot  outlet is  going  to  be  equal  to  m dot  times  H  two  minus  H  naught minus  T  naught  two  minus  S  naught, all  right?  Okay. So  let's  focus  on  state  one  for  a  second. So  if  we  look  at  state  one  here, so  we're  told  in  the  analysis that  T  one  is essentially  going  to  be  an independent  variable  for  us,  okay? Or  let  me  take  a so  let  me  pause  for  a  second. With  this,  we  have enough  information  to  define our  second  law  efficiency.  All  right. So  we  have  our  inlet,  we  have  our  outlets, which  is  here,  inlet  and  outlet. Okay.  And  so  what  it  means  is  that our  second  law  efficiency  is  now  done. The  specific  Xergy  terms, we've  done  electrical  exergy, we've  done  pump  Exergy, we've  done  inlet,  and we've  done  outlet  exergy. So  we've  basically  defined  those  terms. That's  it.  And  now  what  we're  going  to  do is  we're  going  to  vary  the  inlet  temperature, all  right,  and  we're  going  to  see  how  that affects  the efficiency  here  that  we  determine. The  second  law  efficiency. How  much  what's  the  quality of  the  heat  that  we recover  from  this  process? So  to  do  this,  we'll essentially  say  that  we  know  a  T  one, four  that  we  have  to  define  a  pressure,  okay? And  so  what  we'll  do  is we'll  define  some  P  one. And  again,  this  P  one  for  the  purposes  of a  pump  because  water  is  incompressible, it  doesn't  really  matter  that  much. But  for  properties, you  could  say  maybe  1  bar, two  bar  of  pressure at  some  temperature that's  below  that  boiling  point, and  that's  going  to  be  valid,  right? You  don't  want  to  pick  temperatures  at  above that  boiling  point  because  then  it  gets  well, For  the  purposes  of  this  analysis, we'd  like  to  avoid  we'd  like  to  avoid  that, but  some  chip  cooling  is  done  with  boiling. But  then  this  temperature  and pressure  are  not  sufficient  information, right? I  have  to  define  qualities  and  things  like that  if  I'm  going  to  get  into  a  two  phase. All  right,  so  there's  state  one. And  so  from  this  again, so  from  this,  right, we're  able  to  know  S  one  and  an  H  one. Okay,  slide  this  over. Mm  hmm. I Okay. But  now  we  need  to determine  state  two,  right? So  for  state  two,  right,  we  know,  again, that  P  two  is  equal  to  P  one. And  again,  because  we  would  like  to keep  this  only  for  what  we  call single  phase  cooling  as a  liquid  cooling,  right? If  we  knew  T  two, that  would  be  enough  information. But  we  currently  don't  know  T  two. What's  one  way  you  think  that  you  could determine  T  two  in  this  problem? That's  right,  right?  So  we  can do  an  energy  analysis. We  can  take  a  step  back  and  do our  simple  energy  analysis  there  in  balance. The  rate  of  work  being  transferred in  with  essentially that  energy  that's  gone  in, right,  increasing  the  temperature of  the  fluid  at  the  outlet,  okay? All  right.  So  let's  do  that. So  again,  we  can  write  um  No, maybe  I'll  zoom  back  out. All  right. So  we  can  apply  a  steady  flow  analysis to  this  combined  to this  combined  control  volume. And  so  what  that  will  look like  is  right  under  steady  conditions, I  have  aw.in  plus  aq.in  plus  an m.h1  plus  W  one squared  divided  by  two  plus  gz  one. Is  equal  to  w  dot  out  plus  Q  dot  out plus  m.h2  plus  w squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  two. We'll  neglect,  as  we said  before  at  the  start  of  the  problem, we're  going  to  neglect  changes in  potential  in  kinetic  energy. We  do  have  aw.in,  but we  don't  have  a  Q  dot into  that  control  volume. We  don't  have  a  W  dot  out, but  we  do  have  a  Q  dot, and  we  don't  have  a  Q  dot  out,  right, because  this  is,  right, an  adiabatic  control  volume,  right? There's  no  heat  in  or  out  of what  I've  drawn  in  green. So  there's  also  then  no  Q  dot out  of  that,  right? All  of  that  energy  that  I'm  going  to  be putting  in  should  then  equal. So  w.in  should  equal  to  m.h2  minus  H  one. And  that  makes  sense.  No,  I would  expect  the  fluid exiting  the  thing  that  I'm  heating  to  have higher  enthalpy  than  the  inlet,  right? So  the  electrical,  you  know, power  that  I  put  in  should  be the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  fluid, M  dot  times  the  difference  of  the  enthalpy, H  two  minus  H  one,  all  right? Now,  this  is  a  fluid, and  it's  going  to  stay  as  a  fluid. So  one  approximation, you  could  make  here  is  an M  dot  cp  T  two  minus  T  one,  all  right? And  so  the  way  that  we  can determine  T  two,  right? We  could  do  it  the  other  way. I  could  go  and  I can  do  property  tables  with  this. I  could  solve  for,  what  is  this? This  then  H  two  is  equal  to W  dot  N  divided  by  m  dot  plus  H  one,  right? So  you  can  determine  enthalpy  at  state two  from  this  because  I'll have  H  two,  and  then  I'd  have  P  two. So  with  H  two,  P  two  and  P  color, you  could  determine  then  S  two. All  right,  so  or  H  two,  right? And  from  this,  you  can  then  get  S  two. The  other  way  to  do this  is  the  following,  right? I  could  then  go  and  say that  T  two  is  equal  to W  dot  N  divided  by  m dot  Cp  and  then  that's  plus  T  one,  right? That's  the  way  the  other  way  to  do  that. Mmm. Okay. Yeah,  so  with  either  of these  approaches,  then  I  know  right, I'll  know  basically  my  state  my  state  two, and  I'll  get  the  specific  entropy, which  my  slide. Okay.  Um,  right? So  here,  right,  X  dot  electric  lin, I  know,  that's  fixed. X  dot  pump  is  a  fixed  X  dot  inlet,  right? We  were  able  to  determine  because I  knew  state  one,  right? So  I  could  get  one  and  S  one, S  zero,  T  zero  and  zero, I  knew  from  the  dead  state, right  properties,  which  is  the  same  way, maybe  just  for  completeness, state  zero, right  is  basically  T  zero  and  P  zero. And  from  that,  I  know  H  H  naught  and  naught. By  knowing  state  one,  I  know  H one  and  I  know  S  one.  So  this  is  good. By  using  the  energy  analysis, steady  flow  energy  analysis of  a  control  volume. I  can  determine  H  two by  determining  H  two  and knowing  that  P  two  is  equal  to  P one  because  it's  a  heat  exchanger. I  know  S  two. So  I  come  here,  H  two, I  know  H  naught,  I  know  T  naught. I  now  know  S  two,  and  I  know  naught? And  now  I  have  X  dot  outlet,  right? Other  way  to  go  is  to  do  this, determine  T  two,  but  it's  the  same  thing. With  T  two  and  then  the  pressure  P  two, you'll  also  know  S  two. Yes,  please.  I  was wondering  why  do  we  have to  include  the  X  dot  pump? But  it's  not?  Because  I have  smart  students, and  if  I  didn't  put  it  here, your  very  next  question  would  be, but  isn't  there  a  pump  profit  and doesn't  it  cost  energy and  it  shouldn't  be  there? Isn't  from  the  stock? No.  No. So,  again, this  is  maybe  you  could  get  rid  of  it. So  maybe  now  if  we  wanted  to, you  could  definitely  get  rid of  it  and  stick  to the  control  volume  that  I've  drawn  here. To  be  strictly  correct,  for that  control  volume,  right, there  is  no  X  dot  pump, and  it's  a  very  tiny  value,  right? But  yeah,  you  could  go  in and  look  at  it,  but  fine. For  the  purposes  of  this,  right, we  can  drop  that  and  keep  it simple  for  the  control  volume. I  have  an  dot  outlet, an  an  electricity  input, and  then  a  fluid  input. I  think  what  you're  saying is  that  if  I  transferred  the  work in  so  if  I  drew  the  control  volume,  um, larger  there  around  the  device, and  I  took  up  the  entire  device, there  would  be  no  there would  basically  be  no  inlet,  right? And  then  I  would  argue  that  there  is no  outlet  then  at  that  point, which  then  makes  this  kind of  and  that's  fine. We  can  go  to  the  next  stage. And  what  you  would  have  is  there's another  heat  exchanger  and a  reservoir,  and  we  transfer  from  that. So  I  think  your  thinking  is  right, but  I  guess,  trust  me, all  right?  This  makes  sense. But  to  be  strictly  correct, like  this  is  for  what  I've  drawn, I  have  an  right  I'm  recovering  hot  water  out. I  am  putting  electricity  in, and  I  am  putting  hot  water  in. So  this  is  valid.  So  let's  stick  with  that. So  now,  you  know,  okay,  fine. Go.  It's  a  small  number  anyways. It  doesn't  matter.  You  know, again,  you're  pumping  like  a  liquid. There's  not  big  changes in  enthalpy  if  you're  pumping, like  a  dense  fluid,  okay?  But  heat,  right? I  put  a  lot  of  heat  in  and  out,  like, that's  going  to  produce a  big  change  in  enthalpy. Alright.  But  the  point  is  that  you  have  this, and  what  you  can  do  is you  can  plot  this,  all  right? And  maybe  whoops. So  if  you  go  in  and  you plot  this, All  right. And  you  look.  So  this is  the  inlet  temperature. So  if  I  have  an  inlet,  you  know, temperature  that's  basically  getting close  to  the  dead  state  temperature, I'm  not  going  to  recover  anything,  right? Because  if  I  end  up  with an  outlet  where  H  two  is  equal  to  80, zero,  zero,  gone,  okay? So  if  you  dump this  heat  into  air  at  room  temperature, you  will  recover  no  exergy. Your  second  law  efficiency is  going  to  be  zero. But  this  is  how  they  design  data  centers  for, like,  all  of  time. Seriously.  You  start  to increase  the  temperature  of the  fluid  brought  in  to  cool  the  chip. The  consequence  of  that  is to  have  heat  transferred from  the  chip  to  the  fluid, that  means  the  chip  has  to be  run  hotter,  okay? Electro  engineers  don't  like  that, if  there's  any  in  the  room. I'm  speaking  for  you  now. But  the  warmer  that  you get  it,  the  better  that  it  is. And  what's  interesting  is  once you  get  beyond, let's  say,  you  know, 50,  60  Celsius,  you  end  up with  a  second  law  efficiency that's  not  terrible,  right? It  justifies  looking  at  it. And  the  reason  is  that  at this  temperature  as  well, water  that  warm  becomes economically  valuable. Right?  Like,  you  can  put  $1  value  to, like,  heat,  you  know,  brought  in,  right? If  I  have  a  reservoir,  let's  say, a  water  heater,  okay? You  can  say  pretty  well,  like, what  that  could  be  used  or  building  heating. You  go  to  our  colleagues  in  architecture. The  students  there,  they  can  put a  number  to  that,  right? And  that  can  force you  to  think  about  a  design. So  in  San  Jose,  they  look  at,  you  know, locating  data  centers  next  to, like,  residences  for,  like, this  reason  is  because  you  take a  second  law  approach  and  you  look  at  this, and  actually,  it's  not totally  doom  and  gloom,  right? You  could  end  up  doing  compute. It  was  already  heat  you're going  to  use,  all  right? And  you  think  about  this more  intelligently  and  how  you design  it  and  it  becomes  useful,  okay? So  that's  second  law  of  thinking. Most  time  first  law,  electricity,  again, I  got  to  take  heat  out,  but  actually it's  an  opportunity  if  you  know  energy. And  that's  why  you  should  know  energy because  it's  modern  analysis,  all  right? Cool.  This  is  thermal if  you  want  to  be  here.  Alright. I  made  a  face.  I  said  exergy. It  makes  them  go.  All  right. Are  there  any  questions  about  that? Yes,  please. I  can't  hear  you  say  it  again. Sure.  That's  what  I'm  asking. Where's  the  dead  state? That's  a  great  question. So,  where's  the  dead  state? Now,  this  is  a  little  bit like  what  is  dead,  right? So  Art. So  I  hold  back  my  dead  stories,  right? So  the  point  is  that  what  people  do, what  they  look  at  is  they  say, all  right,  here's  my  device. Can  I  like  quantify  my  surroundings? So,  I  have  this  thing. What's  my  environment?  Right? Here  I'm  in  this  room. My  environment  could  be  the  air  in  this  room, or  it  could  be  the  air  outside,  all  right? And  most  people  would  say, It's  the  air  outside,  right? The  conditions  that  are basically,  you  know,  outside, and,  you  know  what  we  call the  environment, you  would  call  is  the  dead  state. For  the  purposes  of  this  class, we  say  T  zero  and  P  zero are  like  25  Celsius  and 1  atmosphere  or  20  degrees  Celsius and  1  atmosphere  is  when  in  doubt, like,  that's  your  dead  state,  right? Does  that  make  sense?  Yes.  I'm  qualifying it  because,  you  know, some  people  have  different  like, not  all  devices  may encounter  the  dead  state  in  operation. And  so  this  is actually  an  area  where  people  still  research and  figure  out  is  really the  dead  state  for  this  device  operation actually  the  outdoor  conditions  or  not, alright? So  if  you  put  this  into  a  very hot  if  you  put  this  into  a  very  hot  room, I  mean,  the  utility of  this  really  doesn't care  about  what  the  room  is,  right? It's  where  can  this  be  pumped to  then  heat  something  else? If  you  wanted  to  live  next  to  you  know, the  servers,  all  right? That's  within  your  rights,  right? You  could  live  next  to  the  toaster and,  like,  stay  warm. But  I  can  tell  you,  if  you ever  go  into  one  of  these  things, they  are  so  loud,  so  loud. Like,  you  need  hearing  protection. Just  to  walk  into  a  machine  room,  it  is, in  a  word  unpleasant,  ar? No  one  is  in  there with  these  they're  loud,  right? There's  lots  of  things  happening,  okay? Yeah,  but  this  class  t0p0 is  25  C  in  1  atmosphere. And  if  you  want  to  discuss  with  me  more, I'm  happy  to  in  office  hours. Come  to  office  hours. Other  questions  about  this. So  I  know  it's  weird. I  know  this  is,  like,  weird  to write  it  in  this  way,  and  it  may  take  time. Maybe  none  of  you  will  realize  it  in this  semester,  you  know, but  it  is  a  way  that  we  can  start  to analyze  more  complicated  systems,  all  right? Hybrid  systems, thermal  electricity  and  ultimately  optimize. And  that's  where  all  of  it's  going. Everything  in  energy  is  hybridization, and  you  need  approach that  can  really  do  apples  to apples  of  something  that  is  not apples  to  apples,  right? He  didn't  work  or  not,  alright? Great.  Thank  you  for  that. Okay.  Um,  do,  do,  do  do. I  feel  like  the  Kansas  City  Chiefs, I  just  burned  off  like  40  minutes in  one  drive  here,  alright? Good.  Did  do. I  lost  my  cursor. Here  we  go.  This  All  right. So  what  I'm  going  to  go  through  now, I  think  probably  the  one  that's  most useful  to  see  here  is the  second  law  efficiency  of  a  turbine. And  when  I  analyze  this  one, think  about  isentropic efficiency  I  defined  before. So,  you  think  about  isotropic efficiency  I  defined  before, that  is  the  real  work  out  of your  system  divided  by  the  reversible  work, right,  when  this  behaved isentropic,  all  right? Now,  think  about  that  while  I  race. And  I  might  have  mentioned  it  before, but  we're  going  to  be teaching  a  data  center  class, energy  modeling  class  in  the  spring. It's  open  for  undergraduates. It  is  a  tech  elective. We  put  in  a  petition with  engineering  Student  services, so  it'll  be  treated  as a  tech  elective  for  those that  are  interested  in  these  kinds  of  things. All  right. All  right  to  do.  All  right. That  is  good.  Cool. Okay.  Question?  No.  All  right. Yeah,  so  we  have  here  a  turbine. Let's  say,  it  looks  like  this. We  have  an  inlet.  It  looks  like  that. We  have  an  outlet.  It  looks  like  that. We  have  some  shaft  work  that's  being transferred  out  of  this. So  let's  say  this  is  maybe our  inlet.  This  is  our  outlet. Control  volume. From  that  inlet. So  it's  adiabatic,  right? So  we  have  no  q.in, is  equal  to  Q  dot  out, is  equal  to  zero.  This  runs  on  air. So  our  substance  is  air. And  for  state  one, We  have  P  one  is  equal  to  550  pa  and  T  one, which  is  425  Kelvin,  425  Kelvin. So  from  this,  we  have  complete  information, H  one  and  our  S  one  for state  two,  What  are  we  told? We  are  told  that  it  leaves  a  P  two, which  is  equal  to  110  pa  and  T  two, which  is  325  Kelvin,  right? So  that  means  we  know  H  two, and  we  know  S  two. And  our  dead  state  temperature that  we're  given. So  out  here,  our  T  zero  is  25  degrees  C, and  our  P  zero  is  going  to  be  101325  Pascal. So  that's  our  dead  state  condition. All  right.  Fine.  So  what is  the  formula  for W  dot  out  of  a  turbine  like  that? If  I  have  this  is  my  M  dot,  steady  flow, and  I  have  this  m.in,  All  right, it's  well,  we  can  call  it  like  this,  right? It'd  be  dot  and  then,  you  know,  W  out. All  right,  which  is  our  M  dot  times H  and  H  one  minus  RH  two. Well,  that's  easy.  So  that's our  dot  W  dot  out. The  second  law  efficiency, what's  the  second  law  efficiency  going  to  be equal  to  here  for  a  turbine? All  right. So  it's  our  real  workout.  All  right. Remember,  we're  going  to,  like, contrast  this  with  what  we  had  before. So  that's  going  to  be  our  W  dot  out  there. All  right,  it's  going to  be  reversible,  right, of  a  reversible,  reversible work  that's  that's  there. And  so  what  this  is  going  to  look  like, is  it's  going  to  be  W  dot, out  divided  by  essentially  the  X  dot,  right, basically  our  dot,  right,  our  x.in,  right? So  what  is,  you  know, looking  at essentially  at  our  inlet  condition. So  the  x.in,  right? This  is  a  flow  X  org. So  this  is  dot  times one  minus  H  naught  minus  T  naught, one  minus  naught,  right? It's  going  to  be  your  x.in. And  this  gets  substitute  here. Of  course,  the  other  thing  that  we didn't  write  here  was that  we  have  our  state  zero. So  our  state  zero  is  that  we  know  P  zero, we  know  T  zero,  and  from  that  we  know  H  zero, and  we  know  S  zero  from  that,  right? So  our  W  dot  out,  right, which  is  the  actual,  we  determine this  way,  the  x.in,  right? So  the  reversible  work,  right? If  we  operated  this  device isentropically  between  this  condition, right,  and  the  dead  state,  okay? So  really  what  you're  doing  here  with  this x.in  is  you're  saying that  I  start  off  at  state  one, and  I  drive  my  system  to  state  zero,  right? And  with  this,  you  can  come  up  with a  second  law  efficiency. If  you  substitute  numbers, I  come  up  with  60.6%. What  is  the  difference  between what  I  have  written  here  as a  second  law  efficiency  and the  isentropic  efficiency  of  a  turbine? What  is  different  in  the  analysis? What  if  I  said,  you  don't  have  to  do quiz  two  if  you  answer  this  super  well? Is  that  enough? So  how  do  we  define  the isontropic  efficieny  of  a  turbine? There's  no  wrong  answers  now, and  that  is  long  enough  that any  answer  is  acceptable. Kay?  Isotropic  efficiency is  The  efficiency  of the  efficiency  that  would  have efficiency  efficiency  over  the  work  W  dot actual  divided  by  W  dot  isentropic, which  is.h1  minus  H two  A  divided  by  m dot  times  H  one  minus  H  two. So  what's  the  difference? By  Yes. I  like  this  where  it's  going. So  what  Maya  says is  that  in  the  bottom,  right, we  treat  this  process  as  isotropic between  State  one  and  State  two,  okay? State  one  and  State  two. So  this  is  between  State one  and  State  two,  right? What  I'm  saying  is  that  when you  look  at  This, again, in  the  denominator  of  the  reversible  work. It's  not  between  state  one  and  state  two. It's  between  that  state and  the  dead  state,  okay? And  that  is  the  difference  between isotropic  efficiency, which  is  good  for  us  in  analyzing a  second  law  efficiency  there. It's  like  I  have  state  so XerGy  is  like  I  have  this  at  state  one. How  do  I  get  all  the  work  out  of this  given  that  that's my  dead  state  that's  there? That's  the  maximum  reversible  work that  I  could  get  out  from this  condition  and  the  environment that  I  live  in,  all  right? Whereas,  like  this  here  from an  isentropic  efficiency  of a  turbine,  you  have  state  one, you  have  state  two,  or  you  have  state  one, and  you  know  something  about  state  two, like  the  pressure,  and  then you  assume  it's  isotropic. So  it's  like  giving  two  pressures, an  upstream  and  a  downstream  from a  turbine  and  a  temperature  upstream, you  know,  you  can determine  HTS  from  that,  right? Okay.  Yes,  please. You  are  definitely  assuming  that  this  is an  isotropic  and  it's isotropic  to  the  dead  state. Okay?  All  right.  With  that, I'm  going  to  close  if  you  have questions,  I'm  up  here. That  concludes  our  exergy  section.
