Today,  I'm  going  to  solve. We're  going  to  look  at analyzing  a  nozzle  here. For  this,  we're  going  to  look  at  this. Look  at  this  problem.  In  this  problem, we're  starting  off with  these  inlet  conditions and  having  this  let  condition, and  the  thing  that  we're  given is  the  efficiency  of  the. If  you  look  at  the  textbook, you're  going  to  have  different  efficiencies for  these  different  devices. How  does  this  process  look  like? The  idealized  the  isentropic or  the  reversible  versus  the  irreversible? The  reversible  one,  as we  start  at  this  high  pressure, we  go  to  this  low  one  along this  constant  entro  P,  we  in  reality, we  have  an  increase  in  entro  P, so  we'd  be  going  from  stay  one  to state  two  A,  there. And  what  we'd  like  to  What we'd  like  to  know  is  what is  the  actual  temperature  at  the  outlet. So  what  is  the  two  S  and  t2s  versus  T  two  A. All  right.  So  for  this, we're  working  with  air. So  our  working  fluid  here, we  assume  is  air  is  our  fluid. And  we  have  that  inlet  condition  P  one  is the  200  KPA,  right? The  T  one  is the  950  K  or  P two  is  110  KPA,  right? And  then  our  eta  ate this  nozzle  efficiency  is  equal  to  0.92. Right?  Good.  So  what's  the  definition  of that,  I  have  H  two. This  nozzle,  we  also  maybe  jump over  to  the  textbook  here. I  can  pull  that  can  pull  that  up. If  I  go  here  and  entropy  and  the  nozzles. The  the  nozzle  is  approximately  equal  two. One  minus  H  two  A  divided  by  one  minus  h2s. We  need  to  figure  out  what those  values  are,  right? So  We're  we're  going to  work  through  this  right  now  what  to  do. So  for  the  state  one, so  we'll  put  the  site  so  for  our  state  one. We  know  the  fluid, we  know  the  pressure, we  know  the  temperature. So  if  we  go  to  our  property  tables, you  can  calculate  this. So  from  this,  we  can  know  what  H  one  is, and  we  can  know  what  our  S  one  is, I'll  share  the  Jupiter  notebook  with the  values  in  a  second.  All  right. So  for  determining  the  h2s, we  need  to  assume  for  h2s. We  assume  that  S  one  is  equal  to  S  two. And  so  since  now  we  know  S  two, and  we  know  P  two,  out  of  this, we  can  get  h2s,  right? So  Good. We  know  like  I  said, because  we  knew  P  one  and  t  one, we  know  H  one. So  we  got  our  H  one  is  good  here. We  have  our  h2s,  and we  also  have  our  eta  here. We  have  everything,  and  we're  going  to solve  now  for  the  H  two  A. If  we  multiply  this  through, I  have  n  times  H  one  minus  h2s minus  H  one. The  negative  of  all  of  that  is  going  to be  equal  to  H  two  A. Right? Good.  The  fact  that  we have  this  is  stat  two,  for  state  two  A, we  now  know  what  H  two  A  is, and  the  pressure  is  still  the  same, so  we  still  have  P  two. And  the  point  then  is  out  of  that, we  now  know  for  both  these  cases, we're  going  to  know  what  the  t2s  is, but  we're  going  to  then  also  know  what the  T  two  A  is. And  if  I  open, I  can  open  up  the  notebook there.  So  if  I  go  to  my Data  hub,  and  I  pull  this  up. So  this  is  my  compressor  case. So  I  have  these  values  submitted  here. So  if  I  run  this,  this  work. We're  going  to  work  with  cool  prop  for  this. So  cool  Prop,  again,  is another  package  which  you  can  use to  work  with  fluids  that  are  in water.'s  how  you  import  it. You  can  define  the  fluid  here, so  write  fluid  quotes  in  air. I've  defined  my  pressures  in  KP, but  I've  converted  it  to  Pascals. So  for  cool  Pp,  the  pressures got  to  be  in  Pascals. The  temperatures  got  to  be  in Kalvin.  I  do  the  same  there. I  define  Mita.  The  syntaxes  here, I  want  to  know  what  my  S  one  is. So  the  way  that  I  do  that  is  I  go  Prop  SI  S. This  is  the  variable  property I'm  searching  for,  and  then  inputs. Pressure.  I  put,  in  the  quotes  here, and  then  the  actual  pressure  T  in  the  quotes, and  then  the  actual  temperature. And  then  I  write  the  fluid, which  I've  defined  above  as  air. Enthalpy,  the  only  thing  that changes  is  that  you  put  in  quotes  H,  right? So  the  S  one  and  H  one  out  of  that, we  say  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one. And  here  the  outputs,  you  can  see our  joules  per  kilogram  per  Kelvin. So  this  is  SI  units,  you're  dealing  with true  SI  units  when  you  work  with  ol  Prop. And  then,  again,  since we  know,  as  I  said,  here, we  know  the  pressures  and  we  knew the  entropy  so  we  can  determine the  t2s.  There,  right? So  this  is  the  t2s, and  then  the  H  two. And  we  can  determine  then  the  H  two  A, right  from  the  formula  that  I had  here.  That's  what's  written. And  then  the  S  two  A,  because  I  knew the  pressure  and  because  I knew  the  actual  enthalpy, I  know  the  actual  entropy. And  from  that,  pressure and  and  entropy  or  I  can  also define  the  S  two  A  from just  modifying  that  and saying  that  it's  T. Maybe  that's  interesting  to  do. If  I  did  this  here,  and  I  said,  actually,  no, I  want  to  know  what  T  two  A  and  Kelvin  is. I  would  define  this  then  as T.  If  I  run  that,  that  should  work. And  you  do  some  plots. So  here  I  import  these  packages  there. Again,  I'll  put  this  online, but  I'm  going  to  put  an  IO  bars for  P  one  and  P  two  and  plot  that. And  then  I'm  going  to  plot  the  process  of  S, stay  one  to  state  two  idealize stay  one  to  state  two  actual. So  if  I  run  that,  That's  what  it  looks  like. So  the  green  line  is  then  the  reversible, the  isentropic  case,  and  then  the  black  line, you  see  the  entropy  is  increasing. That's  the  reality. And  so  what  are  the  temperatures  then? So  the  t2k,  if  I  print  that. So  that's  the  isentropic  or  T  two  A, Calvin.  That  should  be  warmer. That's  A  25  there. So  that's  how  we  work  with  the  efficiencies. And  like  I  said,  it's  very convenient  to  excuse  me, do  these  analysis  with  the  electronic  tables. All  right. I'll  press  save  There, and  again,  that's  the  plots. If  you  compare  that  you  can compare  that  with  the  plot  that I  also  have  in  the  slides. Good.  All  right. So  let  me  exit  that  can  go  up  here, and  then  you  can  turn  this  off. So  for  the  next  ones,  I'm  just  going  to, I  think  be  doing  I'm be  doing  board  stuff and  then  we'll  switch  over  to the  notebook  when  I  need  to know  the  properties  there. All  right.  You  erase  this.  Okay. My  next  problem  that  I'd  like  to  work out  is  a  throttling, so  I'd  like  to  do  a  throttling  process, but  with  heat  losses. So  I  want  to  do  a  throttling  process where  I  start  with  this  state  here. But  then  I  have  some  heat  losses. The  first  thing  I  want  to  solve  for  is  T  two. I  want  to  know  what  the  temperature  is  at the  outlet  after  this  throttling  process, and  then  I'd  like  to  look  at some  entropy  generation. I'd  like  to  do  an  analysis of  the  entropy  generation. There.  So  our  fluid,  our  working  fluid  is R  134  A,  that's  our  refrigerant. And  again,  we're  starting  off  at 1,200  KPA,  40  degrees  Celsius. I'm  saying  that  entropy  at  stay  one I'm  calling  S  in  to  this  control  volume. I'm  drying  the  control  volume around  the  valve  there. And  I  have  P  two,  which  is  200  KPA. I'm  saying  that  the  entropy at  the  exit  is  S  two, and  I'm  looking  for  T  two  there. The  other  detail  that we're  given  is  we're  told  that  the That  0.5  kilojoules  per  kilogram  is  being lost  from  the  through  the  process. So  if  he  losses  of  that  magnitude, and  we'd  like  to  know  what  T  two  is. And  then  the  other  thing  we'd like  to  figure  out  then  is, what  is  the  entropy generated  the  entropy  generated  there,  right? Exactly. So  when  we  analyze  the  nozzle, so  I  can  move  this  slide  over  a  bit. All  right.  So  when  we  think  about the  energy  analysis  here. So  we  have  for our  control  volume  that  we  drew, our  dm  cv  dt  is  equal  to  m  dot  n  minus  m  or the  dv  dt  is  equal  to  e minus  e.  And  what we're  saying  is  that  it's a  steady  state  here. So  m  is  equal  to  m. Is  equal  to  m  dot  and  the  same  here e  dot  n  is  equal  to  e  dot. All  right.  So  what  does  our  E  dots  look  like? O  n  is  going  to  be  a  Q  dot  plus a  w  dot  plus  one, we  go  state  one  as  the  inlet  plus W  one  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  one is  equal  to  n  q  plus w  plus  m  two  plus W  one  square  divided  by  two  plus  gz  two. Right?  So  we  have  no  heating  transferred  in, no  work  in,  neg  like  velocity, neg  like  potential  energy. We  don't  have  workout,  but  we do  have  Q  out,  right? And  the  problem  doesn't  give  it  to us  in  a  rate  format. We  have  the  little  Q. So  what  we'll  do  here  is  we'll  divide both  sides  by  M  dot. And  so  if  we  do  that,  we're  going  to  have H  one  is  equal  to. Q  dot  divided  by  m  dot  plus  H  two. And  this  is  I'm  going  to  call  it  a  little  Q. You  can  check  yourself because  this  is  going  to be  jules  per  second, this  is  kilograms  per  second, so  this  is  going  to  be  jules per  kilogram  or  kilojoules per  per  kilogram  there,  right? Yeah.  So  this  is  the  formula  that we  know  that  we're  looking  for. Because  ultimately  we  can  rearrange  this. Because  we  know  everything  at  state  one, and  we  know  the  pressure  at  state  two, we  can  determine  all  the  properties then  at  state  two. So  again,  because  we  know  state  one, we  know  the  pressure, and  we  know  the  temperature. For  that  condition,  we're  going  to be  able  to  know  what  H  one  is. And  for  State  two,  we're going  to  substitute  that  H  one  into  year. We  know  this  value, so  we'll  solve  for  H  two, H  two  is  equal  to  H  one  minus  Q,  right? Good.  And  then  by  knowing  P  two. So  since  we  know  P  two, and  then  we  know  H  two, a  implies  we  know  everything, so  then  we  can  get  to  T  two  there.  All  right. As  well,  for  part  B,  what we're  going  to  have  to  solve for  is  with  the  entropy. So  since  we  have complete  information  at  S  one, we  know  H  one,  but  we  also  know S  one,  which  is  the  SN. And  then  with  the  p2h2,  we  know  everything, so  we  know  T  two,  and  we also  know  S  two  bigger. So  we  can  jump  over  into DC  notebook,  that  back. All  right.  Go  here. I  am  going  to search  for  a  second  because  I  think  I  have a  working  example  of  this  one that's  that's  not  refrigerator  27d7. Substances  six. Great.  So  we  can  copy  this  go  here  seven, and  we  will  go  paste and  can  use  this  one  as  a  starting  point. I  was  like  to  start  from  an  example  there. This  one  appears  to  be  problem  7147  there. According  to  my  notes, right  cool  Pp  We'll  import  that  save  there. I  call  this  throttling  throttling  rename. Throttling  with  heat  losses  save. I  been  our  fluid. Don't  need  that  equation, don't  need  that  equation. Thing  I  really  need  is  this  syntax  there. The  rest  of  it  I  don't  need. But  we'll  go  like  this. O  P  one  in  Pascals  is  equal to  the  1,200  times 1,000  T  one  in Kelvin  is  equal  to  40  plus  273.15  that, O  P  two  and  Pascals  is  equal to  200  times  1,000. With  this,  we  can  work  on our  state  one,  state  one. H  one  there  is  going  to  be the  t1k  and  the  P  one, and  we  can  print  that,  see  the  value. There  you  go.  U  I said  before  we  go  with  our  energy  equation. And  from  that,  what  did  I  say? I  said  it's  H  one  is  equal to  H  two  is  equal  to  one  minus  Q. So  our  Q  we're  told  in  joules per  kilogram  is  500. We're  told  that  the t  zero  of  the  surroundings. I'm  just  going  to  put  it  here  just  to have  it  is 25  plus  273.15.  That's  good. O  H  2/kilogram  is  equal  two,  one  minus. Then  we  can  print  just to  see  what  it  is  looking  like. Great.  All  right. And  then  we  can  work  on  the  properties of  state  two.  State  two. I  go  like  that.  What  are  we  looking  for? We're  looking  for  our  T  two  and  our  S  two. T  two  and  Calvin  start  with  H, go  with  P  and  P  two. We  can  also  print  this  fans  here. So  we  can  just  say  that's  T  two. Kelvin,  that. Yeah.  So  263263  there. I  don't  think  I  need  the  period,  right? No.  I  looks  good. All  right.  So  we've  done  it's  263. That's  the  temperature. Doesn't  make  sense, while  we  started  off  with  a pretty  high  one  of  40  degrees  C, and  then  we  dropped  on  down to  to  that  so  that  value  there. They'll  clean  it  up  the  of  the  other  parts. Now  the  next  part  is  with  the  entro  P. So  for  the  entrap, I'm  going  to  determine  the  value, so  we  can  of  course,  go  back  up  here. Go  S  one  whoops. S  one,  per  Kalvin. Go  S  S,  and  then  the  same  thing  here, go  S  two  per  Kelvin. Oh,  no,  that's  wrong. Sorry.  Getting  sloppy  here,  two, go  that  say  that  two, call  this  S.  Then  I  can just  say  prints  that just  to  see  what  the  value  looks  like, and  it  worked.  Yeah,  that  worked. Entry  P  should  be  higher  at  state  two. Not  necessarily,  but  you've  had some  heat  losses  and  whatever, so  we  can  see  that  as  as  the  exit. And  because  this  is  a  steady  process, we  can  come  back  and  look  at  our  formula. So,  the  change  in  the  entropy  of  the  system or  the  control  volume  is equal  to  what's  brought  in, minus  what's  brought  out  plus what's  plus  what's  generated. We  can  make  this. And  if  we  divide  that  by  um Let  me  do  it  another  way.  So  we  can  go. Let's  write  this  another  way. So  we  can  write  d  S  control  volume dt  is  equal  to S  n  minus  S  plus  s  dot  generated. If  we  divide  both  sides by  the  mass  flow  rate. And  we  also  assume  the  steady  state. What  we  ended  up with  is  because  this  is  going  to be  All  right,  Watts  per  Kalvin. This  is  then  kilograms. So  basically  joules  per  second per  Calvin,  kilograms  per  second. So  we  have  here,  Joules  per  second. Calvin  divided  by  kilograms  per  second. The  seconds  go  away. And  so  what  you  have  here  then  is jules  per  kilogram  Calvin, which  is  little  S.  This  is  the  little  S  here. We're  going  to  have  that  as  little  Ss. We  have  zero  is  equal  to little  S  minus  little  S  t  plus  little  S, gen,  then  S,  gen  is  equal  to  S.  Minus  SN. So  that's  easy.  So  we  can just  go  here  then.  We're  going  to  say,  S. Gen  Gener.  Joules  per kilogram  per  Kelvin  is  equal  to  two. S  minus  S.  We  said  S  two  is  S. So  we'll  say  S  two.  M  S  one. Then  we'll  go. There's  my  print  function. Else  calls  like  A,  that's  per  A.  N  and P  B  is  gen  Gen, that's  js  per  kilogram  Kalvin. There  you  go.  That's  the 23  and  the  S  gen  is  equal  to 2,030.75  s per  kilogram.  Great. That's  my. Perfect.  That's  the  analysis  there. And  again,  I  should  be  able to  that's  not  call  refrigeration  cycle. We  want  to  call  that  throttling with  heat  losses. So  I  can  upload  that  p. How  much  time  we  go?  A  little  bit  more. Good. I'm  going  to  erase  now  this erase.'s ta. All  right. So  the  next  the  next  problem  that  we  have. I'll  leave  it  here. I'm  going  to  call.  We're  going to  work  with  steam. Sorry,  steam  is  Next, what's  my  heat  exchanger  look  like?  Cool. Yeah. So  I  want  to  make  a  new  one. Python  that That  go  like  that. All  right.  I'm  going  to  rename  this  as. Z  adiabatic  steam.  All  right. Good.  And  what  we're  told  is that  we  have  an  adiabatic  nozzle. It  looks  like  that. I  got  some  mass  coming  in,  mass  coming  out. We  can  draw  a  control  volume  like  this. All  right.  That's  like  the The  mass  is  coming  in  like this  and  lean,  we're  going  to  analyze  this. I'll  say  mass  coming  in  with an  M  dot  like  that. Dv.  The  change  of  mass  in the  control  volume  time is  got  in  minus  t  out, and  the  change  in  the  energy of  that  control  volume  dv dt  is  equal  to  e  minus  e.  Again, we're  going  to  assume  that  it's  steady So  our  m  dot  n  is  equal  to our  m  dot  is  equal  to  our  dot, and  e  dot  n  is  equal  to  e  dot. Wonderful,  right?  Good. Let's  look  at  the  e.  So  for  this, we  can  have  a  w  plus  Q  plus  m  one. So  I  I  define  this  part  here  as  state  one, the  inlet,  and  state  two  is  the  exit. Then  plus  the  velocity  one  squared  divided by  two  plus  g  one  is  equal  two. W  p  plus  m two  plus  W  two squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  two. Good.  Now,  this  is  the  nozzle, so  we  don't  have  any  work. Transfer.  We're  told  that  it's  adiabatic. We  don't  have  any  de  transfer. Neglect  chains  of  potential  energy. And  usually  in  a  nozzle, the  purpose  of  it  is  to  take  something  like a  high  pressure  and  then and  lower  velocity  and  accelerate  it,  right? So  generally, what  you'll  see  is  you  say,  okay, the  inlet  velocity  is less  than  the  outlet  velocity. And  since  we're  going  to  end  up having  with  rearrangement,  you  know, one  sort  of  minus  the  other, the  W  one  ends  up  not  being  a  player. All  right,  so  what  you'll  have  then. And  then  on  this  side,  too, the  M  dots  basically  drop  out. You  have  enthalp  one  is  equal  to  enthalp two  plus  W  two  squared  divided  by  two. Show  you  trading  enthalp  for  speed. All  right?  Okay. Good.  So  we  have  this,  and  that's  nice. Let's  start  to  understand  what it  is  that  we  actually  know,  though. So  if  I  bring  this  back, so  at  the  inlet, we're  told  that  we  have  six. So  P  one  is  equal  to  6  megapascals. And  we're  told  to  saturated  vapor. So  X  one  is  equal  to  one. And  at  state  two,  we  are told  that  the  pressure P  two  is  equal  to  1.2  and  P  A. We're  told  under  the  conditions  that the  exit  velocity  is  to  be the  maximum  possible  value, sketch  the  TS  diagram with  respect  to  the  saturation  lines for  this  process  and  determine the  maximum  exit  velocity  of  this  steam. And  so  that  part  about  the, The  exit  velocity  being  being  maximized. You  know,  the  first  thing  that  comes  out of  my  minus  I'm  saying,  okay, the  efficiency  of  my  nozzle is  equal  to  one,  right? It's  equal  to  one  in  that  case. All  right.  And  that's  is  pretty  good. And  what  we're  going  to  need  to also  figure  out  from  all  of  this. So  like  I  said,  from  this  part  here, you're  going  to  be  able  to  say  that H  two  is  equal to  one  minus  W  two  square  divided  by  two. And  so  then  the  point  is  that  you also  know  H  two. By  knowing  P  one  and  x one,  we  also  know  S  one. From  this,  we  know  S  two, but  we  also  know  is  T  one, and  from  all  of  this,  we  also  know  T  two. So  we're  going  to  be  able  to  sketch the  TS  diagram  when  it  says, with  respect  to  the  saturation  lines. Let's  do  that  now  with  our  notebook. All  right.  So  let's start  to  define  some  stuff. So  we  said  that  our  P  one  in  MPA. Remember,  this  is  an  IP  WS,  we  going  to  MPA. So  the  P  one  is  six, x  one  is  equal  to  one. That's  our  syntax,  right?  So We'll  say  P  P  one. X  is  like  that.  Does  this  work? It  does.  We  need  to  know  that. We  also  need  to  know  Yeah,  that's  good. We  don't  need  to  print.  We  have all  the  information  that  we  need  there. P  two  MPA  is  equal  to  1.2. Great.  And  then  the  H two  in  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Our  formula.  Here,  H  two  is  equal  to one  minus  the  velocity. Now  we  see  here,  actually, we  lack  information. No,  we  don't  know  what  this  velocity  is. We  have  to  pause  for  a  second. And  maybe  we  need  to  look  back  at this  definition  on  the  efficiency. I  don't  remember  off  the  top  of  my  head. So  let's  say  let's  look  at  efficiency. I'm  going  to  say  that  the  T  is  equal  to  one. Um nozzle  adiabatic. I'm  going  to  go  back  to  our  book. I  think  we  had  it  on  the  book  page,  right? Here. Yeah.  So  the  efficiency  then  of  the  nozzle, e  to  n  is  equal  to  one  minus  H  two  A, divided  by  one  minus  h2s. All  right.  And  So h2s  we  can  figure  out. Because  what  we  can  say  is that  we  know  S  one, and  we  can  say  here  that S  one  is  equal  to  S  two, if  that's  what  we  want  to  determine, the  H  one  we  know,  the  e  two  we  know. So  we  just  solve  for  H  two  A. H  two  A  then  is  equal to  e  n  one  minus  h2s, minus  H  one  brackets,  negative,  right? Whoops.  Good.  Let's  do  that. Alright.  It's  great. So  we  have  the  efficiency  as  one. And  I  can  say  that our  kilos  per  kilogram is  equal  to  water  underscore  one. Does  that  work?  That  works. We  need  to  say  that  the  S  one  in kilos  per  kilogram  per Calvin  is  equal  to  water  under  scare  one  S, and  that  the  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one. Then  from  water  to  S,  we  know  P  two. And  we  know  that  S S.  Let's  see  if  that  works. Does  that  work?  That  works.  All  right. And  so  then  our  h2s  kilojules  per  kilogram  is equal  to  water  two  S.  Good. Yeah.  So  we  have  the  one, we  have  the  two,  we  have  that, so  then  the  H  two  A.  I then  in  this  case, we  have  the  eta,  we  have  the  negative  of the  brackets  of  eta  times one  minus  h2s minus  H  one. I  think  all  of  that's in  size  is  going  to  be  one. Essentially, what  we're  going  to  end  up  with  is  that H  two  A  is  equal  to  h2s  here, so  we  can  print  that. It's  going  to  two  A  kilogram, we'll  go  like  that.  All  right. What's  it  mad  about  it  is  not  defined. Taps.  Define  that. Let's  try  that  again.  And  then  if  I just  type  in  h2s  here, that  should  give  me  the  same  value. Which  it  does.  That's  good. All  right.  So  we're  on  track  now  with With  this.  And  so  the  point is  that  if  we  want  to  maximize, if  we  want  to  maximize  the  velocity, we  can  now  return  to  this  equation  here. So  maximizing  the  velocity  is  then  when  H two  is  equal  to  h2s,  right? And  so  then  W. So  if  I  subtract  this  to  the  other  side, H  one  minus  H  two  can  put  in  brackets. If  we  multiply  by  two, and  we  take  the  square  root, this  is  going  to  be  W  two. Then  our  W  2w2s  meters  per second  is  equal  to  0.5. So  that  is  two  times. Again,  one  minus  h2s. One  minus  h2s, then  I  can  go  with  my  print. I  believe  this  is  actually  part  B, we  go  with  Part  B  L  two. H,  and  you  go  to  be  really  careful  with  this, because  the  point  is  this  is  not  in  SI  units. I  better  remember  that  before  I  do  it. So  right  now,  that's  all  fine  until  there, but  this  needs  to  be  multiplied  by  1,000, and  this  also  needs  to  be  multiplied  by  1,000 that  it's  joules  per  per  kilogram. And  then  when  we  do  it a  meters  per  second,  that  should  work. That's  be  to  764  meters/second exiting  the  quite  fast,  right? That's  good.  We  haven't  drawn The  TS  diagrams. Let's  do  that  part  now. I'm  going  to  see  if  I  have  some  IP  WS  plots that  we  can  use. This  one?  Yeah,  I  think  this  is  a  good  one. Let's  copy  this. We  we  can  start  with  this. Run  that.  I  can this.  We  can  play  around  with  it. So  I  think  that's  probably  a  good  range, 300  to  600  Kelvin. The  pressures  that  we  want  though, the  lines  of  constant  pressure. We  only  need  two.  I  think  we  start  at 1.2  and  six.  All  right. We'll  have  the  lines  of  like  that. And  then  I  will  comment. Well,  let's  do  this.  We  can just  comment  these  ones  and  then  figure  out if  any  are  useful  for  us.  Let's  run  that. Okay.  So  there's  a  TS  diagram. So  our  saturated  liquid, saturated  vapor, higher  pressure,  lower  pressure. They're  both  black.  Yeah. Yeah,  I  can't  change  the  colors  those  are both  black  and  then  what  we can  do  is  we  can  plot  the  process of  t1s1  to  t2s2. For  that,  what  I  would  like  to  do  is  to  do a  plot  like  this.  S  one. Is  that  S  two  is  like  that, T  one,  Kelvin  is  like  that, T  two,  Kelvin  is  like  that. Did  we  define  T  two? We  did  not. What  we  can  say  is  that  T  two  Kalvin  is  equal to  go  t2s  Kelvin is  equal  to  water  two  S  T.  Does  that  work? It  does,  and  substitute  that  in  there. T  one  Kelvin  is  undefined.  Fine. So  you  can  do  is  going  to  say T  one  Kelvin  is equal  to  water  under  scare  one  T. Obviously,  you  can  just use  the  donation  here. I'm  just  doing  it  so  you  see  the  dimensions and  how  it  looks.  And  that's  it. So  that  process  there, we're  starting  off  at this  high  vapor  quality  and  high  pressure. And  then  through  that,  assuming again  that  we're  trying  to  achieve the  maximum  velocity  possible, we  move  from  there  down  to the  lower  pressure  and the  slightly  lower  quality  with  it. And  I  believe  that  that  solves. That's  your  part  here  part  B. And  so  with  that,  I  have  a  minute  left, but  I'm  going  to  close  it  here.  Thank  you.
