Okay. Okay. One  sec,  one  sec,  one  sec. Sorry. Come. Okay.  I  have  412, unfortunately,  so  apologies  for the  two  minute  delay. All  right.  So  today,  we're  going  to  solve energy  balance  problems not  only  involving  work, but  also  heat.  I  feel  very  loud. Um  That's  one  part  of  it. The  second  part  of  it  is  that we're  going  to  go  just  beyond the  fluids  and  then  also  into  the  solids. And  then  after  day  it  picks  up. So  like,  on  Wednesday,  Thursday, or  Wednesday  and  Friday, and  then  Monday,  we're  going  to  do, like  real  devices  and  things that  matter,  for  what  happens. Okay?  All  right.  So  again, today  sort  of  my  cadence  is  usually  right. Like,  I  do  a  lot  of  theory  and  math, and  then  I  put  it  to  practice,  okay, which  is  pretty  much  what  engineering. So  today, we're  going  to  be putting  some  stuff  into  practice. Go  through  some  problem solving  approaches  that  I hope  are  then  you  know, getting  you  into  good  habits for  later  on  on  assessments,  okay? So  in  this  one  here,  we're  looking  at, again,  one  of  these  combined  ones. So  if  a  process  here,  we're  transferring  work in  electrically  into  a  piston  cylinder. This  is  our  control  volume  drawn  here, and  this  system  is kept  at  constant  pressure,  right? And  so  what  that  means  All  right, as  we  transfer  work  in, we  may  expect  to  also  have some  work  transfer  out,  okay? What  makes  it  less  obvious  if  it's a  work  transfer  in  or  out from  that  is  that  we  have  a  Q  out,  okay? And  I  don't  know  the  magnitude of  Q  out  relative  to the  work  transfer  that  I'm  doing  here.  Okay? And  this  question  asks us  to  determine  two  things. So  the  first  is  what's  the final  temperature  of  the  steam? And  then  what  is  the  difference between  these  quantities in  the  parentheses,  okay? And  this  U  plus  PV  here, again,  is  what  not really  very  useful  for  this  system. It's  kind  of  a  trick, but  it's  going  to  become  very, very  useful  when  we  get  into  things  like turbines  and  systems  that  involve  flow. Okay?  All  right.  So  here, what  are  we  told  about  the  problem? So  we  have  our  mass  defined. So  we  have  a  mass  that's  here. And  remember,  this  is  a  closed  system, so  that  mass  doesn't  change, okay?  So  we  have  a  mass. Let's  talk  about  state  one. So  we  have  a  mass  that's  here of  0.025  kg,  right? We  have  a  P  one  here  that's  given as  our  300  kPa. What  else  do  we  know  about  the  initial  state? It  was  a  good  weekend. Coal  one.  It  was  awesome.  I  was  there. Also,  we  honored  some  of our  great  lecturers  at  that  game, not  just  academics  or  not  just athletics,  also  academics  there. Okay,  it's  a  saturated  vapor,  right? So  basically,  we  start off  with  saturated  vapor, which  means  the  quality  is  equal  to. One.  There  we  go. Like  an  extra  point,  right?  So  there  you  go. So  we  have  a  quality of  equal  to  one  there,  right? And  with  this,  we  have sufficient  information  to  define that  state.  Good  to  go,  okay? About  state  two,  what do  we  know  about  state  two? About  state  two?  We  know  the  pressure. We  know  that  P  two  is  equal  to  P  one. So  that's  an  isoberic  process. Bless  you.  That's  good. And  again,  we  also  know  that, the  M  one  is  equal  to  the  uh  right, we  know  that  the  mass doesn't  change  in  the  system. And  what  we'd  like  to  know,  right, is  we'd  love  to  know  what  T  two  is,  okay? And  for  us  to  be  able  to  do  this,  okay, to  get  this  right  is  essentially  to  be  able to  determine  T  two, actually,  what  we're  going  to  determine  is U  two  plus  p2v2,  okay? I'll  tell  you  that that's  a  property  in  a  second, but  the  energy  analysis  that I'm  going  to  do  is  that  we're going  to  determine  U  two  plus P  two  times  V  two. And  with  that  information  and  knowledge  about P  two  being  300,  300  pa. I'm  going  to  be  able  to tell  you  the  state,  okay? So  here,  like  I  said,  I'm  searching for  YouTube  plus  P two  times  V  two. And  with  this,  I'm  actually  then  going  to  be able  to  answer  what  the  temperature  is,  okay? Let  me  see.  Am  I  on  my  video? Yeah,  I'm  good  here. Okay?  All  right,  so that's  Essentially  we'll  we'll  get  started. You  see,  am  I  missing  any  points? No.  Okay,  so  now  what I'm  going  to  write  is  I'm  going  to write  essentially  the  conservation  of  energy applied  to  my  control  volume  here,  right? So  the  area  contained  within  it. So  for  that,  I'm  going  to  say  the  Delta  E  CV, where  C  and  V  denote  control  volume  is  equal to  the  energy  that  I  transfer  in  minus, right,  the  energy  that  I  transfer  out. What  are  ways  that  energy can  change  in  the  control  volume? Yes.  Kai  Kai.  I  see. K.  See, I  practice  this  for you  and  then  you  practice  your  name  for  me. Delta  U  plus  Delta  KE,  plus  Delta  B. We'll  see  who  needs  more  practice, remember  it  first,  right? So  that's  what  we  have.  Okay,  right? And  then  the  way  that  we can  transfer  energy  in, right  as  I  can  have  W  in, work  in,  I  can  have  heat  in,  right? And  the  way  that  I  can transfer  energy  out  of  this  system, right  as  I  can  have  W  out  plus  Q  out,  right? Okay,  right? So  our  assumptions. So  if  we  were  going to  talk  about  assumptions, I'm  doing  things  in  a  little  bit of  a  reversed  order. But  if  we  come  to  some  assumptions, you  know,  here,  what  assumptions would  do  you  think  you would  make  in  this  problem? I  would  say  let's  go  term  by  term. So  how  do  we  feel  I  would  say for  kinetic  and  potential  energy, I  will  neglect  I will  basically  neglect  Delta  KE. And  Delta  PE,  all  right? I'll  tell  you  when  we  can't  neglect  that. Systems  where  you  can't  neglect that  are  like  rockets, right,  nozzles. That's  the  whole  point,  right? I  have  a  lot  of  energy.  I  give  gas, and  I  want  to  go,  right? So  that's  when  you  can't  neglect  it. Delta  PEs,  you  don't neglect  when  you're  storing  energy. Think  like  pump  hydro,  right? I'm  storing  a  lot  of  stuff. I'm  not  doing  pump  hydro, and  I  don't  see  a  rocket  in  that,  right? So  this  basically  would  be, you  know,  two  terms  that  I'm  getting  rid  of. The  other  one  that  I  don't  see  here,  right, is  a  I  don't  see  a  Q  in,  okay? I  do  see  a  work  in, though,  in  terms  of  the  electrical. There  is  a  potential  that  we  may  have, um,  you  know,  depending  on  how  much  Q  out, there  may  be  the  potential  for a  potential  W  in, but  more  likely  than  not,  you  know, if  I  was  going  to  hazard  a  guess, I  would  say  that  there's the  potential  for  work  to  be transferred  out  via  boundary  work, expansion  work,  okay? And  I  can  check  that  a  posteriori,  right? I  could  look  at  that  and  say,  if I  define  this  as  W  out, how  would  I  know  that this  was  then  work  transferred  in? How  would  I  know  that? It  would  be  negative. It  would  be  negative.  Exactly.  So  if you're  consistent  with  that, then  you  would  know, and  then  you  could  go  back  and  say,  actually, you  know,  my  bad, that's  what  I  meant,  all  right? Okay,  so  this  is  what  we're, you  know,  so  we'll  set  it  up  like  this. So  for  electrical  work in,  how  do  we  write  this? Okay,  so  we  have  voltage, which  I'll  write  with  some  different  version of  V.  Again,  we  run  out  of  letters,  right? So  I  have  voltage  times  my current  times  my  duration,  time,  right? So  that's  in  SI, volts  amp  seconds, that'll  give  you  joules.  Okay? So  we  have  that  there  is  a  work  in  term  for a  work  for  a  workout  term,  right? It's  an  isobaric  process. So  how  can  I  write  the boundary  work  term  here? A  P  Delta  V,  right? So  P,  let's  just  call  it  as  P, you  know,  one  for  now  because  P  one  is  P  two, but  I  got  to  give  it  something,  right? That's  going  to  be  V  two  minus  RV  one,  right? Okay?  I  could  also  write  this  right? Let's  say  it's  P  one  times  the  mass,  right? You  know,  so  if  I  say  here  that,  uh, one  is  equal  to  two  is  equal  to  M,  right? So  then  I  can  write  P  one  times  N, and  then  I  can  write  V  two, little  V  two  minus  little  V  one,  right? So  the  specific  volumes  I  can write  in  that  way,  okay? I  can  also  write  this  one as  also  being  as  times  U  two, little  U  two  minus  little  U  one,  right? Recall,  this  is  like  energy  per  volume. Okay.  Am  I  missing  anything? No,  that  all  looks  pretty  good. We  can  go  on  and  do  the  substitution. If  I  wrote  write  this  out, I  can  push  this  to  the  edge. It  is  like  hot  today.  Oh,  my  God. Um,  so  right  here. So,  we  substitute  that  in,  right? So  that's  basically  M  times  U  two minus  U  one  is  equal  to  V, where  this  is  voltage,  I, which  is  current  times  T, which  is  times,  so  duration, minus,  then,  here's  the  negative  sign. So  it's  a  negative  of  P one  times  the  mass  times, um,  V  two  minus  V  one. And  then,  again,  we  still  have  a  Q  out  that's minus  a  Q  out  there,  okay? And  so  to  create,  right? So  if  I  want  to  create  this  term  here, what  I'm  going  to  do  is  I'm  going  to move  my  pressure  volume  terms, these  PV  terms,  I'm  basically  going  to bring  them  to  the  left  hand  sign. This  I  know,  right?  So  I know  the  electric  will  work  in. I  know  the  heat  out  because  it's given  it's  given  there,  right? So  if  we  do  that,  arrangement. So  I  can  write  M  times  parentheses  U  two minus  or  U  two  plus  p1v2, then  that's  going  to  be  minus  U one  plus  p1v1,  right? So  that's  the  left  hand  side. Again,  all  I've  done  is  I've moved  this  term  over  to  here, and  then  that's  equal  to  our  V  voltage, I  current  T  time  minus  RQ  out. Okay?  Sorry.  Thank  you  for  this. Okay.  All  right.  Yeah,  so  that's  good. All  right.  So  what I'm  going  to  do  right  now,  and  again, we'll  go  through  this  in  lecture  five  A, which  is  on  Wednesday. But  this  U  plus  P  plus  V  is  tabulated,  right? This  is  something  given in  your  book,  all  right? This  here  we  call  H  two, right,  because  P  one  is  P  two. And  then  this  term  here,  we  would  call  this little  H  one,  okay? And  the  word  for  this  is  enthal  P.  Okay. So  did  the  reading. Great.  Now  reading  ahead. I  love  that  even  more.  All  right. Um  Yeah,  that's  basically  your  enthalpy. And  the  point  is  that  this  is something  that  can  be used  as  a  property,  right? This  can  be  an  independent  property that  you  use  with  pressure, specific  volume, temperature,  and  then  you have  complete  information,  right? This  is  one  of those  other  independent  properties that  exists. It  really  isn't  different than  any  other  energy. It's  still  energy,  right? Internal  energy,  enthropyibbs  free  energy. These  are  all  energies. So  it's  still  energy,  right? Go  ahead.  We're  using pressure  independent.  Is  that  what  you  said? Yes.  If  you  know  enthalpy  and you  know  pressure,  you  can  define  everything. Again,  we'll  go  through  an  example on  that  either  on  Wednesday  or  Friday? Cool.  We  can  rearrange  and  solve  for  this. H  two  is  equal  to V  voltage  current  time  divided by  M  minus  Q  out  divided  by  M  plus  H  one. If  you  go  in  now  and we  do  those  substitutions, you'd  get  that  value,  right? The  point  is  that  for  H  one, we  know  H  one  because  we  know  this? Basically  knowing  pressure,  knowing  quality, we  know  we  would  know  one  from  this, and  if  you  want  to  see  how  to  do  that, that's  located  here  in  the  notebook,  okay? I'm  not  going  to  do  coding  on  the  whiteboard. I  All  right. But  yeah,  the  point  is  that the  inputs  under  pressure  and  in  quality, and  then  you  would  get  you'd get  H  one  right  now  with  H  two, so  now  we  know  H  two. H  two,  we  call  this  H  two, and  by  H  two  and  P  two, you're  able  to  you're able  to  determine  T  two  there. I  have  a  value  for  H  two, so  my  value  for  H  two is  this  my  value  for  H  two? What  am  I  printing?  No,  I'm  printing my  um  I  can put  some  let's  put  some  terms  in  here. Basically,  um,  D.  Yes. So  my  H  two  here, if  you  put  that  in  is 3,009  kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  again,  by  knowing  this  information and  knowing  the  pressure, you  can  determine  T  two, and  then  T  two  is  equal  to 270  degrees  C,  right? Let's  see.  Cool. So  that's  all  good. You  could  represent  this  on  a  PV  diagram. So  you  could  go  and  create,  like  I  do in  that  document,  a  PV  diagram. So  there's  your  line  of  saturation,  okay? So  low  values  of  V  are  liquids of  saturated  liquid,  saturated  vapor. Where  you  start  off  with  is that  this  pressure,  right? So  we  have  this  P  one  that's  here. You  start  off  on  the  line  of  saturation, which  is  the  quality  of,  um, right,  which  is  the  quality  of  one  here. And  you  move  isoberically, then  to  state  to  state  two,  right? So  the  net  result  of this  process  is  where  you  you'd  end  up, and  you  would  know  that  again  by figuring  out  what  the  H  two  is. If  the  H  two  is  less  than  H  one, then  this  would  then  be  moving in  the  opposite  direction,  okay? Cool.  Any  questions  about  that? Yes,  please.  Got. Yeah,  so  the  thing  is  that you  can  use  this  as  an  input. So  if  I  know,  and you  could  also  do  that  in  your  tables. If  you  want  to  go  and  do  tables, you  can  also  interpolate, you  look  at  the  value. But  the  point  is  that  for your  right  here  state  two, let's  say  state  two  is  basically dot  state  of  water  you  know, here,  P  is  equal  to  P, you  know,  two  or  P  one, depending  on  how  you  define  it. This  is  in,  how  do  we  give  it? This  is  in  pa,  so  you  can  declare the  units  of  pa  like  that, and  then  H,  the  H, you  write  H  equal  to  two, and  just  put  that  in  as  units of  kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  you  can  also  name  it,  right? You  can  name  equals,  right? We  can  do  two, and  then  you  would  have  that,  right? And  then  the  way  that  you  call  it  in dot  notation  is  that,  let's  say, in  this  case,  S  two, do  little  H  will  then  give  you  enthalpy. Again,  all  the  information  is  in the  notebook  there, but  that's  how  it  works,  okay? And  get  comfortable  with  this because  we're  going  to  do  other  properties. There's  going  to  be  a  bunch  of other  dot,  you  know,  things  there. So  right  now  we're  at  dot  H, right?  Other  questions? Okay,  yeah,  and  because  we know  H  two  and  we  learned  H  one, then  you'd  be  able  to  compute,  right,  right? You  could  look  up  the  internal  energy,  right? So  if  you  wanted  to  know  internal  energy, right,  you  can  go  tt  dot  U. If  you  want  to  learn  the  volume,  right, this  would  be  like  t  dot  little  V and  so  on  and  so  forth  to  pull  those  values. And  the  same  thing  then  for  state  one, right,  t  dot,  you  know, U,  P,  you  know, and  then  you  could  also  dot, dot,  dot  V,  all  right? And  it's  instructive  for  you  to multiply  those  out  to  actually  take  those, do  the  calculation  like  that, and  then  compare  it  with  actually  what the  enthalpy  values  would  be,  okay? I  highly  recommend  for  systems  like  this. So  closed  systems  like  that,  like, resist  the  urge  to  jump  straight  to, you  know,  Delta  H,  okay? I  would  say  start  from,  you  know, the  fundamentals  writing  like,  you  know, this,  organize  your  internal  energies, make  your  assumptions  about  pressures, move  things  over.  Okay? If  you  read  the  book,  which  some  of  you  have, they  for  things  like constant  pressure  processes, will  encourage  you  to  jump  and  say, Hey,  I  could  just  write  Delta  H  here,  okay? I  mean,  you  can  also  do  that, but  I  find  that  when I  teach  ME  40  to  students, and  they  have,  oh,  I  don't know  when  to  do  internal  energy. I  don't  know  when  to  do  enthalpy. Don't  think  like  that. Just  start  from  the  basics, this  to  this,  you  know, to  this  and  let  it  all  evolve out  naturally  to  where you  can  form,  you  know, mathematically, your  enthalpies  and  then  go  into  it, okay?  Otherwise,  it's  confusing. You  have  to  hold  too  much  in your  you  already  have enough  to  keep  in  your  heads,  okay? Good?  Yes,  please. I  how  do  we  get  a  one. Each  one,  this  is  easy,  right? So  each  one  is  I  know my  pressure  and  I  know  my  quality. So  I  know  in  two  independent  properties. So  if  I  declare  this  in  PiKLor, which  you  can  do  if  you  click  that  link, you  put  that  in,  and  then  you  just go  st  dot  H,  right? So  you  just  would  write  an  St  dot  H, you  know,  and  that  would  give  you  enthalpy, right?  But  that's  right? You  know  these  two and  you  have  complete  information,  right? Okay.  If  there's  no  other  questions, then  I'm  going  to  move  on  to  the  next  one. All  right. I. Did  anyone  go  to  the  lecture today  from  Admiral  Meyer  or  no? One?  What  did  you  think? That  was  a  great  lecture. Yeah.  Yeah,  he  was  basically  right a  mechanical  engineering  student like  you.  What's  up? Plus  nuclear.  Yeah,  I  did  nuclear, but  I  think  his  core  expertise  originally  was mechanical  there.  Yeah,  it  was  neat. Very  inspiring.  Okay.  Great,  great,  great. I  liked  what  he  said  about, if  you  want  to  go  fast,  go  alone, if  you  want  to  go  far,  go  together. I  think  that's  the  thing one  of  the  things  I'm going  to  keep  in  my  mind,  okay? All  right.  So  going with  going  to  final  temperatures. Alright,  this  one,  again, so  the  previous  one  was  with, let's  see,  with  water. We'll  do  this  one  with  nitrogen. Nitrogen's  an  ideal  gas. I'll  solve  this  one  in  two  ways. One  essentially  doing  the  way  that  we  did, and  then  I'll  show  you  one  assumption you  can  make  with  an  ideal  gas  for  this. Again,  we  have  work  transferred  in, we  have  heat  transferred  out, and  the  potential  to  transfer  work from  through  boundary  work,  right? So  my  first  step  in  my  thermal  problem, I'm  going  to  draw  a  schematic  in a  boundary.  So  here's  my  boundary. That  that  defines  my  control  volume. Um,  And  what  I'm going  to  assume  here  check  my  video. Good.  Okay,  what  I'm  going  to  assume, here  is  that  I'm  dealing with  an  ideal  gas,  okay? So  I  have  an  ideal  gas,  that's  an  assumption. We  have  quasi equilibrium  expansion  or  compression. All  right.  We're  going  to  neglect  Delta  KE, and  we're  going  to  neglect  Delta  P, not  kinetic  or  potential  energy  effects. And  we're  going  to  assume  that  boundary  work. Boundary  work  is  only  through  P  dv,  right? Okay.  Good.  All  right. Then  what  are  we  looking  for? Let  me  say  that  first. So  what  we're  looking  for  in this  problem  is  the  final  temperature. So  determine  Final  temperature. Okay. Also, the  lecture  hall  there  was,  like,  amazing. And  I  mean,  this  is  pretty  nice, but  that  one  was  very,  very  nice  here. I  hadn't  been  in  the  Grimes  building  yet. Okay.  All  right.  So  again, from,  you  know,  from  our  fundamentals,  right? So  our  Delta,  right? So  basically,  the  Delta E  and  our  control  volume. So  within  the  dashed  line  is,  again, our  E  in  minus  our  E  out.  Okay. At  some  point,  you won't  have  to  write  this  every  time, but  I'm  just  doing  it  so  you can  follow  your  steps. Again,  we  have  Delta  U, our  Delta  KE,  our  Delta  P  is  again, equal  to  write  our  W  in  I'm  sorry, Wn  plus  our  Q  in minus  RW  out  plus  our  Q  out  there,  okay? So  we  can  neglect potential  kinetic  energy  effects. All  right. I  see  right  that  we  have  a  Q  out, but  I  don't  have  a  Q  in,  right? So  the  Q  in  is  gone. And  again,  our  work  in here  is  just  like  before, we  have  the  electrical  work, so  we  have  duration, we  have  current,  we  have  voltage. So  I  have  voltage,  which  I'll  write  with this  kind  of  in  this  kind  of  way. Voltage  times  my  current  times  my  time. So  that  defines  the  work  in. And  for  our  workout, Again,  we're  told  that  it's an  isoberic  process. So  our  work  then  is  this  P.  So  if  I  called this  if  I  called  this  as P  one  equals  to  P  two  equals  to  P, then  I'll  just  call  this  as  P, and  then  I'll  multiply  that  by  V two  minus  V  one,  right? My  Q  out  is  a  given. Okay.  That  is  good. Um,  Where  am  I  at? Yeah,  so  just  like  we  did  before, so  I  can  separate,  these  things. So  I  can  go  with  my  M  times, my  U  two  minus  my  U  one. So  again,  we  have  constant  mass, so  our  M  is  equal  to  a  constant,  right? So  I  have  the  mass  that's  equal to  my  VP,  right? Um,  Vn  minus  my  pressure times  my  mass  times  little  V two  minus  little  V  one,  right? And  then  that's  minus  my  Q,  um,  out,  right? And  we  can  organize  that  to  have enthalpy  form,  you  know,  naturally. So  here,  right,  I'll  have  U  two  plus p2v2  minus  U  two  or  U  one  plus  p1v1. The  pressures  are  constant, so  we'll  just  call  that  as  P,  right  there. And  then  that  would  be  equal  to V  T  minus  Q  out,  right? Enthalpy  two. I'll  move  the  boards. Okay.  All  right,  so  this  is  your  H  two, and  then  this  is  your  H  one. And  then  we  can,  you  know,  solve for  H  two  again,  just  like  we  did  before. Our  H  two  here  is  H  one  plus  the V.  So  voltage  current  time  minus  Q  out, and  then  that  whole  thing  is divided  by  the  mass  in the  in  the  cylinder,  all  right? And  just  like  with  the  vapor  case,  you  know, once  I  know  H  two, because  I  know  P  two, I  know  I  know  the  final  state  at  T  two. So  we  can  look  at  some  properties,  okay? Properties.  All  right, so  let's  talk  about  properties. So,  um,  it's  an  ideal  gas. So  we  can  determine  the  mass. So  our  mass  is  equal  to  our  P  one, which  we  can  just  call  as P  since  it's  constant. So  P  times  V  one, V  one  is  given  as  half a  cubic  meter  divided  by the  specific  gas  constant  R  and  T  one,  okay? R,  in  this  case,  for  nitrogen  is 296.8  joules  per  kilogram  times  Kelvin. Again,  this  is  nothing  but the  universal  gas  constant, and  then  divided  by the  molar  mass  of  the  substance, and  then  you  can  get  to  that  value. Okay,  um,  Is  that  good? Yeah,  so  if  you  substitute,  right? So  the  pressures  and the  volumes  and  all  that, which  you'll  have  is  the  mass  is 2.2  kilograms. That's  like  your  first  step,  right? The  Q  out  we  have  as  a  given  in  joules, the  voltage,  the  current,  the  time. So  our  in,  right, which  was  our  I  times our  voltage  times  our  time. Okay,  so  our  I  is  two  amps, our  voltage  is  120  volts, and  the  duration  is five  times  60  seconds,  all  right? And  then  this,  if  you  multiply  it  through, then  you'll  have  7,272,070 2000  joules  of  electrical  work that's  transferred  in,  right? Okay. And  if  you  want  to  use,  again,  if  you want  to  use  electronic  tables, the  way  then  to  get  to  H  one, so  we  need  to  know  right  here, this  H  one  to  have  that. So  our  H  one  would  depend  on  our  state  one. So  our  state  one, we  know  P  one,  okay? And  And  we  know  our  P  one, which  is  basically  just  P,  and  then  we know  RT  one  there  with  this,  right? And  so  if  you  use  these  two, you'd  be  able  to  then  produce, basically  from  this  information, you'd  be  able  to  then  know  what  H  one is  as  a  value,  okay?  Cool. So  then,  H  one  you  have,  right? This  is  our  work  in, which  we  just  computed  here, our  Q  out,  right? This  is  given  already  as  2,800  Jules, the  M  is  what  we  just  determined  here  with our  ideal  gas  with our  ideal  gas  relation,  right? And  from  that,  if  you  substitute  in, you'll  be  able  to  get  to  what  our  H two,  okay? And  so  for  state  two,  All  right. What  you  know  then  is,  you  know, H  two  and  you  know  pressure,  right? And  so  with  this  information,  you'd be  able  to  determine  T  two. Okay?  Yeah,  so,  you  know, pretty  plug  and  chuck,  okay? I'll  give  you  one  alternative  way  to  this, so  let  me  move  this  thing. Well,  I  guess  I  should tell  you  what  the  temperature  is. So  the  temperature  is  here  56. So  I  have  56  degrees  Celsius,  right? The  one  alternative  way to  look  at  this  is  to  pick  up from  our  definition  for  our  energy  equation. So  H  two  is  H  one  plus  V  voltage current  time  minus  Q out  divided  by  M,  all  right? To  recognize  that  for  an  ideal  gas, so  we  can  recognize basically  for  an  ideal  gas, that  the  differential  of  enthalpy, so  dH  is  equal  to  CP,  right? So,  specific heat  at  constant  temperature,  right? And  we  could  do  this  substitution  then. So  if  we  assume  so  if  we assume  that  Cp  is  equal  to  a  constant, which,  you  know,  for temperature  differences  of,  like,  you  know, less  than  than  100  degrees  Celsius  different, that's  an  okay  assumption. What  you  can  do  then,  is  we  can  say H  two  minus  H  one  is  equal  to Cp  times  T  two  minus  T  one,  right? And  for  this  difference,  it doesn't  matter  if  it's  Kelvin minus  Kelvin  or  Celsius  minus  Celsius. But  it  has  to  be  like the  same  units  because  you  want, you  want  the  difference  in  that. And  so  if  you  substitute this  above,  you  can  then  rearrange, and  what  you  can  say  is  that  T  two is  then  equal  to  T  one plus  plus  V  voltage  current  time  minus  Q  out, and  then  that  all  divided  by  M  and  CP,  okay? And  CP,  this  is,  again,  this  is  very  common. You  know,  this  is  like  Googleable, you  know,  values. They  also  exist  and  are  published  in the  back  of  the  book  in  tables. And  as  you  get comfortable  working  with,  like, you  know,  air  or  water,  you  know, these  things  they'd  be  provided  on  quizzes, but  it's  also  the  kind  of thing  that,  you  know, you  may  be  able  to  remember  just  off the  top  of  the  top  of  your  head,  okay? And  the  rest  of  it,  you  would  know. So  this  is  the  table  information, but  the  rest  of  it  you  have, and  the  T  one  is  given. And  so  that's  another  way  to  get  to  T two  to  T  two  there,  okay? Yes,  please.  Give  us. I'm  going  to  give  you  the  whole  back  of the  textbook  in  properties on  all  of  the  quizzes,  right? And  if  I'm  kind,  sometimes  I  will  write,  Hey, here's  the  CP  of  the  substance, so  you  don't  need  to  flip  back  and  forth. And  generally,  I'm  kind, unless  you  make  me  not  be, all  right?  Other  questions? So  again,  basically, it's  the  same  drill  as  before. What's  interesting  about  the  ideal  gases, though, is  you  can  follow  this  approach of  going  with  states  and properties  and  determining enthalpies  there,  right? And  then  from  that  enthalpy getting  to  the  temperature. But  the  other  thing  that  you're  allowed to  do  is  to  go  this  approach. This  is  actually  this  is, this  is  by  definition,  right? So  dH  is  equal  to  Cp  dT. This  is  not  just  for  ideal  gases. You  know,  so  you  can  go  and then  write,  you  know, Delta  H,  Cp  dT  and  do  the  substitution. Right?  The  only  thing  though, what  makes  this  a  bad  assumption  sometimes, right, is  if  I  want  to  get  to  this  equation, right,  and  you  take  the  integral,  okay? And  what  you're  assuming  when  you  do  this is  you're  taking  the  CP out  of  the  integral,  right? So  you're  assuming  that's a  constant  value,  right? And  it's  the  Delta  T,  right? And  to  know  whether  or  not  this is  a  good  or  a  bad  assumption, it  only  comes  with,  like,  time, but  my  rule  of  thumb  would  be  for, like,  just  gases, like  ideal  gases  and  stuff  like  that. That's  usually  a  pretty  good  assumption. Better  than  5%  let's  say  probably better  than  5%  error  most  of  the  time. For  liquids  and  stuff,  too,  also, you  know,  it's  generally, you  know,  pretty  good. And  then  this  is  also  just  faster. It's  much  faster,  right, to  just  get  to  this  and  jump  to that  than  what  I've  done  there,  okay? That's  my  first  comment  about  it. So  I  would  recommend,  you  know, do  whatever  you  feel,  you know,  basically  comfortable  with. Both  are  correct,  in  my  view, for  the  purposes  of  this  course, but  that  one  is  the  more  exact,  right? That  one  is  the  more  exact  way, okay?  One  thing. Second  thing  I  want  to  say is  that  the  book,  okay, if  you  read  it,  has  an  approach, and  you'll  see  this  that  comes  later. But  they  have,  you  know, kind  of  funny  approaches when  it  comes  to  these  kind  of CP  dT  things,  right? So  they'll  have  an  approach  where, you  know,  with  some  math,  right, they'll  be  able  to  not assume  this  kind  of  constant, you  know,  specific  heat  and  all  of  that. And  that's  all  fine  and  well, but  this  is  what  you  start  with. And  if  you  want  to  be  exact,  just  go  to  this. Don't  bother  with  any  sort of  confusing  tricks  because  this  gets you  exact  properties  at  those  states  and will  be  the  most  accurate. Okay. The  final  thing  I  want  to  mention about  this  is  that  you  have a  free  choice  when  it  comes  to the  selection  of  this  CP,  right? The  fact  that  it's  going  to  be between  two  different  temperatures. My  advice  on  this  is just  go  room  temperature. Most  of  this  class,  you're  just  going  to  say, what  value  do  I  take? I'll  go  to  the  table,  look, I'll  choose  one  and  just  say, I  took  this  CP  at  room  temperature. That's  it.  I  went  there, I  went  room  temperature, and  I  picked  this,  You can  also  pick  from  a  different  one, that's  perfectly  fine,  too. But  I  would  say  go  in, pick  one,  say  where  you  got  it  from. You  don't  need  to  defend  it. You  know,  you  say,  Psor  shot, you  said  so,  you  know,  that'll  work  here. Not  for  a  job,  okay?  But,  you  know, you  can  go  room  temperature  and  just  say, and  like  I  said,  for  most  of  these  problems, that's  going  to  be a  pretty  accurate  approach. And  if  you  ever  doubt  it,  right, especially  in  the  homework,  you  know, by  all  means,  go  in  and do  the  exact  calculation,  alright? All  clear?  Yes,  please. Yeah,  sure,  sure.  This  I  cannot  slide.  Sorry. But  it  is  all  there.  So  if you  click  it,  you'll  see  it. All  right.  Cool.  Let  me  erase  them.  Do  do. Feels  like  repeats  today. Alright.  To  do. That  was  my  least  favorite  day  of  running. Okay.  All  right,  that's  gone. And  then  these  examples  that  I  had there  also  may  be helpful  for  some  of  the  homework. So  some  of  the  ones you  don't  know  where  to  get  started. Some  of  these  ones  from  class  might  be helpful  for  some  of  the  homework, especially  let's  say  Homework  three  there. Okay.  To  do I  Okay.  All  right. So,  you  know, we're  just  doing  basically fluids  there  or  basically, let's  call  it  steam  as  a  vapor  or a  gas  and  the  nitrogen that  we  dealt  with  a  gas. When  we  want  to  evaluate  changes  in internal  energy  or  let's  say  also  this, you  know,  kind  of  new  this  term, enthalpy  when  it  comes  to  liquids  or  solids, you're  not  going  to basically  for  like  a  liquid or  so  a  liquid  or  a  solid. Okay,  um,  C  is  CP  is  CV,  okay? The  reason,  right,  is we  got  CP  because  when  we transfer  heat  in  to something  at  constant  pressure, it  could  also  transfer  workout,  right? So  you  would  expect  there,  essentially  that to  be  a  bigger  term, which  it  is  for  gases  like  that, CP  is  greater  than  CV. In  liquids  and  solids,  when  we  heat  them, they  don't  generally  expand  as  much  as you  would  have  in  a  vapor,  okay? So  what  we  call  them  is  we  call these  substances  incompressible,  okay? When  you  take  ME  one  oh  one  oh  six, you'll  get  more  into  what  it  means. But  essentially,  if  I  apply a  pressure  to  it,  does  it  change  volume? Yes  or  no,  okay? And  if  it  doesn't  appreciably  change, it's  an  incompressible  substance,  right? So  in  a  solid,  um, you  know,  in  a  solid  here,  okay. So  for  this  slide  here,  right? So  the  C  is  the  CP  is  the  CV, it's  an  incompressible,  all  right? And  for  that  reason,  um,  you  know, it  only  depends  on,  you  know, so  change  then  in internal  energy  is,  um,  right? Is  only  a  function then  of  temperature,  right? So  basically  this, how  to  use  this  in  practice. If  you  go  to  your  book,  it  will not  say  C  for  a  solid. What  you'll  see  is  that  it's  called CP.  I  don't  know. It  is. Okay?  It  could  just  be  C,  but  basically, when  you  go  in,  you'll  see  that  this  is  a  CP. And  again,  it's  CP  is CV  if  dU  is  equal  to  CV  dt, so  facto,  this  is  then  Cp  dT  All  right? Cool.  One,  and  like  I  said  before, for  this  case,  especially  for  solids, there's  not  going  to be  multiple  values,  right? Most  of  the  tables and  stuff  that  you  look  up, there's  one  poor  guy  or  gal went  in  and  measured  this probably  100  years  ago. They  did  it  at  this  one  temperature, and  they  put  them  in  a  table. Bless  him  for  that.  We  have  it, but  you're  not  going  to  see this  for  like  zero,  ten, 20,  30,  onto  100  degrees C.  It's  just  going  to  be a  one  temperature,  all  right? Okay.  So  when  you  want  to  do  that, you'll  say,  okay, here's  what  I  looked  up  in  the  table. That's  my  specific  heat, and  there's  my  temperature  difference. Cool. All  right.  For  the  enthalpy, so  going  into  the  enthalpy, right,  that's  our  definition. If  I  take  a  full  differential  of  that,  right, I'll  have  the  DU,  but  I'll have  PDV,  VDP,  okay? And  because  it's  incompressible, the  volume  doesn't  change,  right? So  the  dV  term,  it's not  there,  right?  So  that's  out. Um,  And  so  you  can  integrate. And  again,  assuming  a  constant  specific  key, you'll  have  that  value,  right? And  what  I'm  telling  you, what  I'm  going  to  tell  you  here is  that  in  solids, it's  a  very  low  value  of  V,  okay? It's  like  0.001, or  less  meter  cube  per  kilogram,  okay? So  a  very  tiny  value, even  times  a  big  pressure  differential  is  not a  very  big  value.  So  it  makes  sense? So  like  this  term,  in  a  solid, because  it  has  a  very  high  density  or a  very  low  specific  heat,  also  insignificant. So  you're  going  to  end  up  essentially changes  in  internal  energy, and  the  changes  in  Xenthropy, which  we'll  go  into  more,  are  just  going to  be  C  deltay. And  that's  in  a  solid  in  a  liquid,  okay? The  same  statement  about internal  energy,  you  know,  holds. For  enthalpy,  though,  Um, the  VDP  doesn't  necessarily  go  away,  okay? And  that  has  to  do  with the  fact  that  you  can  get some  pretty  big  pressure differences  when  you  pump,  okay? So  you  have  two  cases.  One  is  that  I don't  have  a  pressure  drop. That's  a  heat  exchanger. So  I  have  a  heat  exchanger. There's  not  going  to  be  a  pressure drop  across  the  heat  exchanger. So  the  change  is  going  to  be C  delta  T.  On  the  other  hand, when  you  deal  with  a  pump, when  you  deal  with,  like,  a  pump, and  I'm  transferring  work  in from  a  pump  and  I'm  moving  fluid, those  are  generally  isothermal  processes. And  so  that  change  in  enthalpy  is  going  to be  a  V  Delta  P  term,  okay? Um,  If  you  were  to  say,  like,  Hey, I  have  a  CDT  and  a  VDP,  more  likely  than  not, this  is  not  going  to  be  a  big it's  just  not  going  to  be a  big  term  in  the  C  delta T.  And  we  actually  exploit  this  fact when  we  pump  fluids  that it  requires  very  little  work  to  pump  a  fluid. Like  a  whole  fricking  power  plant  basically plays  off  of  the  game  that  a  vapor  has, you  know,  very  low  density, very  high  specific  volume. So  VDP  is  very  big  there  from  a  turbine. That's  the  workout,  and the  work  in  is  from  the  pump. And  that's  VDP,  but  it's with  a  liquid,  and  the  V  is  very  low. The  Delta  P  across  is  the  same. That's  pretty  much  the  name of  the  game,  alright? Okay.  Yeah,  so  we  did  we  did  the  problems energy  analysis  of  involving working  heat  for  the  ideal  gas. We  have  for  the  pure  substance in  the  case  of  the  water  vapor. Again, click  on  the  links and  review  that  if  you  want. The  last  one  that  we'll  do,  I'll start  this  now,  and  if  I  don't  have  time, I'll  finish  it  in the  next  lecture  is  to deal  with  incomssible  substances. Alright?  So  in  this  problem,  we're looking  at  cooling  of  a  solid  block. So  I  think  like  in  this  case, we  have  hot,  you  know,  hot  iron. So  we're  in a  material  science  department  here. So  it's  kind  of  an  appropriate  example. So  here  you  basically  have,  you  know, a  hot  chunk  of  metal that  is  being  dropped with  some  mass  and  it's being  dropped  into  a  liquid, which  is  at  a  lower  one. And  what  we  want  to  do  is  to determine  the  temperature  when equilibrium  is  reached,  okay? We  can  draw,  right? I  can  draw  pretty  much  two  control  volumes and  the  sum  of  the  control  volume,  okay? So  here,  let's  say  this  is  my  liquid. Here's  my  block. I  want  to  draw  one  control  volume, which  is  just  around  the  block. So  let's  call  this  as  CV  one. And  the  second  control  volume that  I  would  like  to  draw is  everything  that  contains  the  liquid,  okay? All  right.  This  is  kind  of  a  mess. They  took  my  blue  marker. So  this  is  what  you're  left  with,  right? And  so  this  part  that  has the  water  is  basically  CV  two. So  we  can  call  this  as  water,  and we  can  call  this  as  iron, right?  All  right. So  if  I  want  to  write my  conservation  of  energy  equation, I  would  like  to  first  start  with the  combined  system,  right? So  I'm  going  to  write  my  change  in energy  for  my  combined  system. So  the  Delta  E  CV  one plus  CV  two  is  equal  to  the  E  in of  CV  one  plus  CV two  minus  E  out of  CV  one  plus  CV  two.  All  right? You  know,  we're  going  to  neglect kinetic  and  potential  energy. Even  if  I  drop  the  rock  in, let's  say  now  it's,  you  know, we're  not  it  wasn't,  you  know, I  wasn't  throwing  it,  you  know, Justin  Verlander  slinging  it  at  that  thing. So  basically,  you  just,  you  know, you  kind  of  you  put  it  in  there. And  so  what  you'll  have  then  is, we'll  say  that  the  Delta  U  All  right, four  CV  one  plus  CV  two, so  the  change  in  internal energy  is  then  equal  to our  our  W  in  plus  our Q  in  of  CV  one  plus  CV  two  minus  or plus  a  negative  of  W  out  plus  Q  out, CV  one  plus  CV  two.  All  right. And  what  I'm  going to  say  is  for  this  process, when  I  look  at  the  combined  control  volumes, do  you  see  any  work  or heat  transfer happening  to  this  combined  system? All  right,  on  the  sixth  row, I  see  a  head  shake. I  like  that.  So  no.  All  right. So  there's  no  worker  heat  transfer in  and  no  worker  heat  transferred out  to  the  combined  one,  okay? There  is  heat  transfer,  of  course, that's  going  to  take  place  between  the hot  rock  and  the  cold  water. But  if  I  look  at  the  combined  thing, it's  adiabatic,  right? And  I  have  no  work  happening,  right? So  this  Delta  U,  right? Delta  U  of  CV  one  plus  CV  two  is  equal to  zero. All  right. Yeah,  which  is  the  other  way to  write  this  is  that  I  could  just  say that  Delta  U  of  CV  one  plus Delta  U  of  CV  two  is  equal  to  zero, right, because  these  things  are  additive,  right? This  is  an  extensive  property,  right? It  depends  on  how  much  is  there. So  I  can  add  the  internal  energy  of  the CV  one  to  the  internal  energy  of  the  CV  two. That's  the  combined  one, and  as  I  showed  you  there, or  as  you  said,  that's there's  zero  change,  okay? All  right,  for  an  incompressible, so  for  our  solid, so  for  our  solid,  what I  showed  on  the  slide  before,  right, is  that  right,  d  is  equal  to CV  CV  of  T  times  times  dt. All  right,  we  can  integrate this  from  state  one  to  two. We  assume  it's  a  constant  specific  heat, and  we  can  say  that  right, this  is  CV  times  T  two  minus  T one  iron,  right? F,  okay? And  again,  we  have  free  choice  as  to  what  in a  sense  as  to  what  temperature we  take  the  specific  heat  at. But  as  you'll  see  in  the  textbook, I  believe  this  one's only  for  room  temperature. And  as  I  said  before,  the  value that's  given  is  a  CP, and  for  a  solid  CV  is  CP,  all  right? Okay.  Cool. Yeah.  And  so  then  the  change in  the  internal  energy then  of  our  CV  one. Just  give  me  a  second, and  then  we're  done,  right? I  have  the  mass  of the  iron  times  the  specific  heat  of  my  iron, and  then  that's  going  to  be  times  T two  minus  t1f.  Okay? And  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. We'll  pick  up  in  the  next  lecture, then  with  our  second  control  volume. If  you  have  questions,  I'm  up  here. Thank  you.  This  is  uppercase,  right? This  is  uppercase,  because  it's a  mass  times  my  specific  volume and  my  Delta  T. Okay.
