All  right. So  what's  the  difference?  So  basically, and  you  might  ask  yourself, why  is  he  talking  about  internal  combustion when  we're  going  to be  like,  electrifying  everything. I  can  tell  you  straight  up  right  now  that everything  that  is  driven  in a  semi  truck  relies  on  a  diesel, and  there  is  no  way  it's  like, plausible  scenario,  for  example, in  Europe,  where  that's going  to  be  replaced,  right? What's  looked  at  there  is  hydrogen and  whatever  auto, you  can  make  a  case  for  it  there  th there's  work  that  goes  into  it. So  this  is  my  statement  to  you  on  it. There,  right.  So  main  differences between  gasoline  and  diesel. So  the  first  is  that  in  gasoline, you  have  a  spark  plug,  right? So  essentially,  you  take  your  fuel, you  go  in  there,  you  compress  it, and  to  start  the  fire  and  kick off  then  the  work  transfer  process, you  need  a  spark. In  the  case  of  a  diesel, the  way  that  you  do that  is  you  don't  need  a  spark, you  just  compress  the  things  so  much that  it  auto  ignites  from  it. And  this  ratio  between, let's  say  the  initial  you  know, volume  that  you  start  with  to the  final  one  that  you  achieve  is  important. And  in  the  case  of  the  diesel, you  can  get  very, very  high  compression  ratios. And  as  I'll  show  you  later,  this allows  you  actually  to  get  to some  pretty  high efficiencies  and  also  powers. This  is  why,  like, on  an  electromotive  diesel, you  know,  engine  on  a  train, you  run  on  diesel. When  you  think  about  a  semi  truck, it's  also  the  same. So  there's,  you  know, you  get  good  power  out  of  it, but  you  also  get  very  good  efficiencies with  it.  How  do  they  look  like? If  you  want  to  plot  these  as  like PV  diagrams. So  here's  the  example then  on  a  gasoline  or  auto, what's  called  auto  cycle,  OTTO, not  AUTO  auto  cycle, is  that  the  QN  here  is  very  fast,  right? This  happens  practically  instantaneously. And  so  it's  isochoric. Basically,  you  have  the  cylinder, that  the  piston  heads  down, you  have  a  volume  that  combustion  process happened  so  quickly  that  you treat  it  as  isochoric. Then  in  the  ideal  case, you  have  an  isntropic  expansion, heat  out  is  again,  isochoric, and  then  compression  is  isntropic, right  in  the  idealized  case. Case  of  Diesel,  the  heat  transfer  process is  not  isochoric,  right? So  you  have  isobaric, and  it  takes  quite  some  time. So  basically,  this  combustion  happens  longer. And  ultimately,  in  the  idealized  case, you  treat  that  basically  as a  longer  expansion  through  constant  pressure, but  basically  a  PDV  there. And  the  workouts  and  work in  steps  then  are still  assumed  to  be  isotropic. And  just  like  in  the And  in  the  auto  cycle  or  the  gasoline  engine. The  heat  transfer  out  is  isochoric. Okay?  So  the  main  difference  is  in  23. So  here  it's  instantaneous  isochoric, and  here  it  takes  longer. It's  o  Barrick. So  now  I'm  going  to  make my  best  effort  to  not  put  you  to  sleep. The  derivation  of  the  efficiencies, which  was  asked  last  time  with  it. And  then  I'll  go  through  a  detailed  example then  of  diesel  there. I  there's  questions  in  the  meantime, feel  free  to  interrupt  me  with  it. My  back  is  to  you,  so  maybe  hand  raising isn't  the  best  way  to get  my  attention,  right? Okay,  so  auto  cycle. So  we're  looking  Again, imagine  here  that,  you  know, what  we're  dealing  with  is  a  piston, right, to  have  a  piston  piston  head  here,  right? This  is  moving  up  and  down. This  is  our  control  volume, we're  drawing  here,  right? And  so  the  change in  energy  of  this  control  volume,  right? There's  no  mass.  We're  not  dealing with  the  real  case where  we  can  have  masses  in  and  out. We're  talking  about  the  idealized  cases  where we  replaced  that  with  sort  of  heat  addition and  and  heat  removal. So  neglecting  kinetic  and  potential  energy. You  know,  Delta  Little  U  is  going  to  be equal  to  right  Q  N, minus  Q  plus  W  N  minus  W, where  the  sub  the  little  letters here  mean  that  it's  jules  per  mass,  right? Jules  per  kilogram  there. So,  where's  the  heat  addition? So  heat  addition  is  happening  here 22-3,  right? So  this  Q  in  Here  is  then equal  to  u  three  minus  u  two,  right? So  this  is  what  we have  for  our  Q  in,  and  then  our  Q  out. Is  then  equal  to  we're  looking  at  41  there. This  is  going  to  be  u  four  minus u  one  there,  right? Good.  Great. So  if  we  treat  this  as  an  ideal  gas, when  we  look  at  the idealized  case  of  this  and  we treat  the  working  fluid  here  as  an  ideal  gas, we  know  from  for  an  ideal  gas  that  changes  in internal  energy  can  be  written  as  CV,  right? So  specific  heat  for  constant  volume, T  three  bus  T  two. And  we'll  do  the  same  then  for  this,  right? CV  is  then  T  four  minus  t  one. All  right.  All  right. Yeah.  And  so  if  we  look  at  this then  is  that  a  cycle  right? So  our  Q  in  for  a  cycle  rate, our  QN  plus  our  WN  must  be  equal  to our  Q  plus  W  there. And  so  what  we  can  do  is  we  can  say then  that  the  QN  then, so  if  we  rearrange,  right? So  then  our  Q  in  right  is  equal to  minus  N  plus  our  Q  out,  right? And  we  can  remember  then  for  what  W  net  is, W  net  is  equal  to  R  W  minus  RN. So  the  network  out  of the  system  is  basically equal  to  the  work  we  transfer  out, minus  the  work.  We  transfer  in. And  so  our  equation  that  we  have  there  then, our  QN  is  going  to  be  equal  to W  net  plus  Q  out. All  right?  All  right, which  is  to  say,  then,  right? W  net  is  equal  to  Q  minus,  I'm  sorry. W  is  going  to  be  equal  to  Q  in minus  R  Q,  R  Q,  right? Can  recall  the  definition of  efficiency  for  a  thermal  engine. So  this  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  network  that  we  transfer  out, divided  by  the  heat  that  we  transfer  in. If  we  take  this  formula  here, and  we  put  that  in  there,  right? Well,  we're  going  to  have  is  then a  QN  minus  Q  divided  by  Qn, which  is  equal  to  one  minus, let's  see  a  Q,  divided  by  Qn. Maybe  I'll  expand  this.  All  right. So  this  is  our  Q,  right?  And  this  is  our  QN. So  if  we  substitute  those  in  to  here, Q  of  one  minus  the  Q  term, which  is  C  V  T  four  minus  t  one. Qn  is  then  CV  T  three  minus  T  two. Just  like  we  had  done  for  the  Braden  before, we  have  this  cold  air  assumption  that  we  do, we  effectively  say  that the  specific  heats  that we  use  in  these  calculations  are those  at  room  temperature. So  these  two  are  the  same. And  so  you  end  up  with  that. I'm  going  to  do  a  bit of  a  rearrangement  here, taking  the  T  one  and  the  T  two out  of  the  parentheses. And  so  if  you  do  that,  you  have  t  times T  four  by  T  one  minus  one. And  then  here  with  the  T  two,  you  have  t  two, and  that's  times  t  three divided  by  t  two  minus  one,  right? And  that's  the  thermal  efficiency.  All  right. If  we  now  look  to this  stages  here  with  the  and  Tropic, so  we  can  use  the  fact  that  stages  one  to two  and  three  to  four  are  isentropic. And  we  can  take  advantage  of this  fact  when  we  want  to  convert  these, like  temperature  ratios  into  things  like the  compression  ratio  that  I mentioned  before. All  right.  So  so  those  are  from  our  TDS, right?  Our  TDS  relations. So  when  it's  isentropic, right  the  DS  is  zero, but  we  still  had  for  the  ideal  gases, all  those,  you  know, Ts  and  Ps,  Ps  and  Vs, Ts  and  Ps,  Ps  and  Vs, Vs  and  Ts  that  are  there,  right? So  the  first  one,  we  can  write  T one  divided  by  T  two,  right? Is  equal  to  V  two  divided by  V  one  to  the  APA  minus  one, and  just  to  remind  you,  right? This  is  the  adiabatic  index, K  or  APA  is  by  definition, CP  divided  by  CV. And  just  like  we  did  for  the  CV, you'd  select  that  value  based  also  on the  cold  air  cold  air  assumption. All  right.  Excellent  is  T  four, S  T  four  divided  by  t  three. And  this  is  equal  to  V three  divided  by  V  four  or  little  Vs.  Again, to  the  AA  minus  one  there. All  right.  Other  thing  to  recognize  is  that the  ratios  of  V  two  and V  one  and  V  three  and  V  four  are  the  same. All  right?  So,  you  recognize  that  V two  divided  by  V  one  is  equal to  V  three  divided  by  V  four, that  cylinder  that  I  have  on the  right  hand  side  there. If  we  don't  have any  mass  coming  in  or  out  of  it, which  again,  for  this  idealized  case, we're  just  doing  heat  and  work. That's  like  a  closed  system. And  so  this  implies that  right  V  two  divided  by Little  V  one  is  equal  to  Little V  three  divided  by  little  V  four. Alright?  Just  have  some  fun  with  it. Alright.  You  could  also put  this  since  they're  equivalent. I  could  take,  you  know,  APA  to the  minus  one  on  both  sides. And  that's  that's  still  allowed,  right? So  what  this  means, right  here  is  that  this  is equivalent  to  saying,  right? So  I'm  saying  that  V  three  by  v  four  to the  minus  one  is  equal  to  v two  divided  by  v  one  to  the  cap  minus  one. That's  essentially  like  saying  that these  two  ratios  are equal  to  each  other.  All  right? So,  from  this,  it  follows  that  T  one, divided  by  T  two  is  equal  to  T  four, divided  by  t  t  three. All  right.  Or  alternatively, We  could  say  that  T  three  divided  by T  two  is  equal  to  T  four  divided  by  t  one. All  right?  All  right. So,  let's  come  back  now to  our  middle  board  here. Maybe  it  was  a  different  color. So  I'm  saying  t  three  divided by  t  two  is  equal  to  T four,  divided  by  t  one. So  this  ratio  here  is t  four  divided  by  t  one,  right? And  if  that's  the  case,  right, T  four  divided  by  t  one  minus  one, t  four  divided  by  T  one  minus  one,  right? So  this  whole  thing  goes  to  one,  right? So  now  the  only  thing  we're  left  with  is  a T  one  divided  by  a  T  two,  right. So  we  can  take our  formula  here  and  write  this. So  our  eta  thermal  is  then equal  to  one  minus  T  one  divided  by  T  two, which  is  also  V  two,  right? T  one  by  T  two.  Yeah,  that's V  two  divided  by  V  one. APA  minus. One,  and  I'm  going  to  introduce  now a  variable  that  defines the  ratio  between  these  two  volumes. And  just  to  remind  you  here, we're  talking  about  this  V  two  and V  V  one  and  the  ratio  is  going  to  be between  V  one  divided by  V  two  is  going  to  be  equal to  R.  How  it's written  in  the  book  is  they  say, right,  big  V  two  is  equal  to  Big  V one  time  divided  by  divided  by  R.  Again, since  we're  not  taking  mass  in  and  out  of  it, we  can  write  this  as  V  two  is  equal to  little  V  one  divided  by  R,  right? So  if  I  take  this  to  the  other  side, then  one  over  r  is  equal to  V  two  by  V  one,  right? So  if  you  substitute  this  then  into  here, we  end  up  with  with  our  final  formula,  right? Which  is  that  this  is  one, one  over  r.  All  right. Okay?  Yes,  please. So  R.  For  those  in  the  back, maybe  I'll  write  it  bigger. So  V  two  is  equal  to V  one  divided  by  R.  All  right? Alternatively,  R  is  equal to  V  one  divided  by  V  two. So  if  you  look  here,  this  would  be  V  one. Right? This  is  the  biggest  volume that  the  cylinder  has. And  V  two  is  the  most compressed  that  you  make  the  cylinder. So  one  way  to  look  at  this  is  like, it's  the  ratio  of  how  many times  you  compress  from V  one  to  V  two,  right? So  it's  like  a  compression  compression  ratio, right? Other  questions?  Yes,  please.  Winnie. First  Q. So  this. Yeah,  so  what  I'm  writing  here  is  I'm  writing the  first  law  applied  to  this  control  volume. So  what  I'm  saying  is  that  the  energy in  this  control  volume,  right, which  is  on  this  side  here  is equal  to  the  mechanisms of  energy  transfer,  right? If  it  increases,  it  would  increase because  I  transfer  heat  or  work  in, or  it  would  decrease  because  I transfer  work  or  heat  out. So  what  I'm  basically  saying is  I'm  writing  the  first  law of  thermo  applied  to  this  control  volume. Okay?  Here.  What  I've neglected  is,  of  course, this  side  could  have  potential in  kinetic  energy  there, but  I'm  neglecting  that inside  inside  of  the  cylinder. Yes,  please.  The  fuck. I'm  going  to  close  this  door. I'm  definitely  not  saying  that the  internal  energy  is  zero. I'm  definitely  not  saying that.  One  more  time. One,  this.  Yeah. So  for  a  cycle,  right? So  if  I  look  basically at  the  whole  cycle,  yes. So  in  a  cycle,  there  should  be no  change,  you  arrive  where  you  start. It's  like  running  on  a  track. You  know,  My  mother  used to  asked  me  that  why  did  you  run? You  end  up  where  you  started,  right? So  in  that  case,  you  do, exactly.  Yes.  You're  correct. So  the  Delta  U  for  a  cycle,  in  that  case, since  you  end  up  where  you  start, it's  like  one  minus one,  should  be  zero,  right? Yes.  Other  questions. Super.  Okay.  Yeah,  so  that's  that. And  so  there  was  a  question  last  lecture. Like,  how  does  one,  you  know, what  assumptions  are  made  to  arrive at  a  formula  that  looks  like  that, where  you're  only  defining  APA,  you  know, specific  heat  divided  constant  pressure and  volume  and  this  compression  ratio. And  so,  through  this,  you  see,  you  know, sort  of  the  assumptions  that  come  in,  right? We're  not  transferring  mass  in  and  out. Those  processes  are  replaced  by  heat, you  know,  idealize  heat and  heat  out  additions. And  then  to  make  it work  with  something  like  CAPA, you  have  to  make  an assumption  about  its  value,  which, again,  here  in  the  book, they  do  this  cold  air  assumption value  for  that,  okay? I'm  not  I'm  gonna  spare you  a  derivation  for  diesel, and  more  or  less  proceeds  the  same. The  difference  for  the  diesel  is that  there's  some  additional  terms  here  which multiply  on  the  onto the  auto  cycle  term  there. So  that  means  the  problem  that  I'm actually  going  to  solve when  we  work  it  out  though, will  be  the  diesel. We  have  all  kinds  of  noises  today. Okay.  Okay.  I'll  speed  up. All  right.  Yes. Alright. Okay. So  if  we  look  at  the  diesel  cycle,  right. So  in  this  case, we  already  look  at  this  before  the  PV. So  the  heat  addition  is not  isochoric,  it's  isobaric. It's  longer.  This  is  then  how  the  TS  diagram, basically  how  the  TS  diagram  looks. For  that.  You  know, if  we  were  thinking  of  something  like Carnl  Carne  basically  be like  a  nice  square  box. For  it,  that's  not  it. Alright,  so  that  was the  difference,  but  still, you  know,  the  heat  transfer  of four  to  one  is  isochoric. So  this  line  that  you see  here  is  then  a  line  of constant  of  constant  volume  with  it. We  want  to  compare  the  equation. So  we  just  derived,  right the  thermal  efficiency  of the  engine  for  the  auto  cycle. So  the  gasoline  engine runs  again,  the  auto  cycle. And  the,  The  efficiency then  for  the  diesel  engine  looks  like  this. So  if  you  look  at  everything that's  here  and  here,  it's  the  same. And  then  you  have  an  additional  term here  with  one  other  variable that's  called  a  cutoff  ratio. And  the  cutoff  ratio  is the  ratio  of  the  volume  at  V three  divided  by  V  two  there. Again,  I've  shown  you  one, I  believe  you  should  be  able to  drive  the  other, at  least  look  at  the  book  and follow  what  they've  done, what  Singles  has  done  for  that,  right? Again,  a  major  difference  then  between these  two  cycles  is  that  in the  case  of  this  is  like, gonna  drive  me  nuts. Like,  the  compression  ratios and  the  diesel  are  high,  right? These  are  basically  pretty  high. Does  anyone  know  what  happens  to a  gasoline  engine  if  you  try  to run  with  very  high  cutoff or  high  compression  ratios? What's  the  word? I  heard  it.  Knocking.  What's  knocking? Early  lead.  Exactly. You  basically  start.  It's  like  if  you're on  a  bicycle  and  you're  pedaling, it's  like  you  start  to  pedal with  the  1  ft  in  the  wrong  direction. You  basically  like  ignite  on  a  down  stroke, and  it  pushes  back  and  it screws  everything  up.  It's  not  desirable. Back  in  the  day, my  understanding  is  I  used  to  put,  like, a  lot  of  not  great  stuff  into, like,  gas  to  prevent  it. I  think  lead  is  one  of  those  things. So  if  you  S  shell  wires  fuel  now  unleaded, well,  Uh, 'cause  we  used  to  put  lead  in  it,  you  know. And  yeah,  so  that was  part  of  it  to  prevent  it. If  you  look  at  like,  high  grade gasoline,  there, high  octane,  those  are ones  that  are  able  to  tolerate. My  understanding  is  be  able  to tolerate  slightly  higher  compression. But  diesel  is  basically  in  another  league. And  the  nice  part  about  that  is you  can  get  into,  Right? Like,  we're  measuring  now  with  some  of these  efficiencies  upwards of  50%  towards  70%. Like,  that's  pretty  high,  if  you,  again, if  we  think  about  some  of the  stuff  we  looked  into  power  plants, we  looked  at  some  propulsion  before. Like,  that's  a  pretty  high  value. 70%  of,  like, your  fuel  energy  is  basically  being converted  into  motion.  That's  not  bad. Alright. Another  important  part  about  this, if  you  think  about  transportation  is Diesel  has  a  huge  amount  of  energy  content. Like,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to create  a  fuel  or any  device  that  can  actually  hold, you  know,  that  that  much  energy  with  it. I  mean,  batteries  are  pretty  good. But  basically  a  very  high  fuel  content. It's  relatively  simple. You  don't  need  spark  plugs and  stuff  to  do  it,  right? It's  just  movement.  That's  why a  semi  truck  can  drive like  1  million  miles  a  year, like  1  million  a  year  because it's  just  not  that  complicated,  right? It's  basically  not  as  complicated  as  the  auto basically  as  the  auto  system. And  because  of  the  fact  that  you have  to  travel  that  much  and  do  it, again,  it's  very  difficult  to  electrify  this. If  you  look  at the  first  article  that  I  shared, transportation  as  a  sector is  one  of  these  areas that's  very  hard  to  get  out  of  it. And  some  people,  like  I  said, when  I  was  in  Europe, hydrogen  was  looked  at  very seriously  as  like  a  replacement. You  know,  and  you  have  a  couple  of  a  hub here  in  California,  you  have  a  hydrogen  hub. And  the  reason  is  that,  like,  that's one  of  the  bets  is  that  that  could  be a  potential  way  if  you  had  like green  hydrogen  as  a  way  then  to  possibly, you  know,  switch  out  over,  at  least  somehow supplement  or  reduce the  reliance  on  it,  okay? And  since  I  love  to  tell  stories, you  can  also  read an  interesting  history  about  Diesel. He  was  a  guy,  and his  actual  goal  was  to produce,  like  a  rational  engine. So  part  of  what  he  did  was  to  take  sort  of, like  what  Carno  wrote  and  make  it,  like, how  would  I  take  now  a  mean  like an  actual  real  mechanical  engine  and  like, push  it  to  the  limit. So,  like  100  150  years  ago, that's  what  he  did. Alright?  So  there's  a  nice  paper  about  it. So  with  that  fun  history, we  can  go  through  and  solve a  diesel  problem.  Um If  you  want  to  open  it  for  those  of  you who  like  those  notebooks. You  can  launch  that  here  at the  end  of  it  produces  this  plot. So  this  is  again,  a  TS  diagram of  the  Diesel  cycle. So  we  have  here  one,  two,  three,  four. The  black  lines, the  green  lines  are  then  the  cycle. The  black  lines  are  the  isobars,  right? So  this  is  your  isobaric  processes. So  your  two  to  your two  to  three  was  your  work  transfer, it's  basically  your  work  transfer  out. The  44  to  one was  then  that  isocre  that's  heat  transfer. Sorry,  two  d  three  was a  heat  transfer  process. Four  to  one  was  your  other  heat  transfer. Two  to  three  is  isobaric,  right? It's  along  that  constant  pressure. Four  to  one  is  isochoric. So  the  red  line  that  I'm  drawing you  here  is  the  Iocore. So  that's  where  the  vol  specific  volume remains  constant. I  denoted  it  in  red. And  then  your  12  and  three,  four, right  when  you  assume  the  ideal  case, your  cork  transfer  in and  your  work  transfer  out  or  what? S.  Who  wants  candy? I'm  like,  not  again.  My  wife  gave  me a  bunch  of  sour  patch  kids. Alright.  So  we  have idealized  cycle  here.  Alright? So  what  do  we  assume for  those  work  transfer  processes? Who  said  it?  Alright. Alright,  my  throwing  seals  are  not  great. So  I'll  improve  on that  next  time  I'll  walk  a  Pietro. Yeah,  they're  andropic,  right? Basically,  it's  can  tropic  there. Alright?  Cool. And  so  that's  everything.  Basically  that, if  we're  given,  you  know, you  know, enough  information there  that  should  be  solvable. So  in  this  case,  we're  told  these  two  things, right  at  the  compression  ratio,  right?  R. We're  told  is  18,  right? So  if  R  is  equal  to  18, we're  told  that  this  R  cutoff is  equal  to  two. So  we  have  to  remember  now, so  the  cut  off  one  was  to  do with  V  three  and  V  two,  right? So  our  V  three  divided  by  V  two, and  our  compression  ratio  had  to  do then  with  V  one  divided by  V  one  divided  by  V  two  there,  right? The  other  thing  we're  told  is  at the  beginning  of  the  compression, we  have  Air  as  the  working  fluid. So  this  is  one  bit  of  information. If  we  look  now  to  state  one, so  we  have  P  one  is  equal to  what  one  oh  1325, right,  which  is  essentially  1  atmosphere, 1  atmosphere  of  pressure. The  temperature  is  26.7, 26.7  degrees  C.  And  the  volume,  so  the  V  one, O  V  one  is  equal to  1917  cubic  centimeters. CCs  there,  right? Yeah,  and  we  already  wrote that  formula  that's  there. And  if  you  follow  basically  the  notebook, there's  two  ways  to  do  this  problem,  right? We  can  do  the  Colder  assumptions,  right, which  I  just  did  for  driving  on the  engine  efficiency  of  the  auto  cycle. But  you  can,  of  course, also  with  this  information like  this  go  in and  compute  properties,  right? With  something  like  T  one  and  T one  of  air,  you're  going  to  know  everything. You're  going  to  know  the  You  know, you're  going  to  know, you  know,  one,  H  one,  you  know,  S  one. And  so  you  could  also  follow  that  analysis  in that  notebook,  it  does  it. For  the  purposes  of  this,  I'll  follow  it  with the  cold  air  assumption. Also  for  the  interest  of  time. Alright?  So  one  to  two,  right? One  to  two,  right? This  is  an  isentropic  process. So,  right? So  for  one  to  two,  right?  It's  isotropic.
