All  right,  I  got  210. I  got  210,  so  I'm  going to  get  started  with  today. So  today,  we're  going  to  talk  about  basic. I  wrote  basic  before  and  concepts, my  PhD  student  after  I  showed  the  slide  says, you  better  put  that  in  quotes. So  okay,  things. So  for  uploading  homework  for  Pen, thanks  to  those  who  have  started  it. If  you  look  at any  assessment  on  the  homework  there, what  you'll  see  is  the problem  list  and  at  the  bottom, attached  notes,  just  take  one  PDF. I  don't  care  if  it's  written  on papers  and  you  took  pictures  of  it,  whatever, but  something  like  that  to  put in  and  upload  there. Our  accreditation  depends  on  it. Great.  Some  comments  on  it. We  write.  We  work  very  hard, but  sometimes  you  make  mistakes. If  you  notice  it,  please  just,  like, there's  a  button,  you  can  click  like  error. We'll  see  it.  Feel  free  also to  send  me  like  a  message. Hey,  that  was  kind  of  nice. This  could  be  better. This  is  the  only  way  that  we get  better  in  life  is  with you  telling  us  there. Also,  the  platform  in  Haley  does  variant. So  it's  important  if  there's  really  an  issue. Like  any  kind  of IT  support,  like  screenshots, more  information  is  better  and  helps  us to  get  to  the  problem. But  we  do  independent  checks, and  then  always  another  person, but  sometimes  we  make,  bless you,  some  mistakes. Right  now  I  count  135  users, but  we  have  163  people  enrolled  in  the  class. So  again,  my  advice in  this  class  is  be  ahead. What  you  need  to  do  tomorrow, you  should  be  doing  today,  okay? For  Par  test,  we will  do  the  assessments  for  this  class  or quizzes  done  at a  computer  based  testing  facility. That  is  through a  program  called  Prairie  Test. So  there's  Prairie  Learn  and  Pray  Test, and  that's  located  in  a  building called  Star  Jadi  Hall. So  Sutardi  is  a  very  nice  building  that  way, and  it's  next  to  Yali's. I  mean,  more  details  will  come  up  later, but  go  to  that  link  and  login  for  me. Thank  you. Okay,  so  what  do  we  talk  about  today? First  and  second  laws  and  things  like  that. What  you'll  be  able  to  do  after  today? Hello,  we  needs. Some  energy,  thermodynamics. Yeah.  That's  a  good  joke. Okay.  It's  Sunday  the  laugh. Thank  you.  Welcome  to  stay.  Okay.  Cool. Okay.  Cool.  Pardon  the  interruption. Okay.  We're  back  on,  like  a  pit  stop. All  right.  So  we're going  to  talk  about basic  concepts  of  thermal, like  postulate  systems, equilibrium  process  cycle. I'm  going  to  tell  you  what an  independent  independent  property is,  a  pure  substance, and  you're  going  to  be  able  to  determine all  properties  using a  wonderful  Python  module  called  Pi  calor. Okay.  Color  is  heat  Kazu  School,  fine. So  that's  what  Pfessor  Frank  Lock  wrote. It's  a  great  thing. Okay,  so  that's  what you're  going  to  do  at  the  end. So  thermodynamics. Essentially,  this  is  the  science  of  energies, like  the  battery  that  I  just put  in  this  here. And  it  originally  was  chiefly  concerned  with the  conversion  of  heat  to work  and  work  to  heat. This  is  the  origin  story  of  it,  right? Essentially,  in  the  19th  century, there  was  a  gentleman  by  the  name  of Sadi  Carne  Carno's  old  man worked  for  Napoleon  in  the  army, and  the  French  were  getting whooped  by  the  English, and  they  made  them  real  mad,  real  mad,  okay? I  don't  know  what  happened  the  old  man. I  think  nothing  Okay, so  that's  a  different  class. Anyway,  Sady,  like,  looked  at  it  and  said, No,  you  know,  we're  Mathew. We'll  look  at  this,  we'll  get  it  right. And  he  essentially  wrote  what we  would  call  as  the  second  law today  of  thermoal,  right? And  that's  chiefly concerned  with  the  efficiencies of  engines.  That's  the  origin. Then  there's  a  German  guy, Julius  Robert  on  Meyer. He  was  actually  a  physician. He  didn't  have  engineering  training, but  he  went  in  and  had  some  thoughts, took  some  voyages  around  the  world, and  kind  of  came  into  the  idea of  what's  the  first  law,  right? So  that's  kind  of  where  it  begins. Like  all  our  words,  it's either  Greek  or  Latin. Cor  is  your  Latin. Your  Greek  is  then  therm, which  is  then  heat  and  noms, which  is  like  power,  right? So  thermodynamics. And  that  really  comes  from  the work  in  the  heat  part  of  it. But  it's,  you  know, there's  more  than  that,  right? So  this  then  basically  branched  off, got  into,  like,  chemistry, so  predicting  the  probability  of  reactions. It  then  got  to,  like,  information  theory. So  you  think  about how  we  transmit  information, you  know,  bits,  like,  information  there. Shannon  was  Shannon  theory  of entropy  and  all  of that  in  the  heat  depth  of  the  universe. So  it  started  off  in  this  humble  roots  and then  basically  grew  into this,  like,  huge  area. But  the  way  that  it  keeps  its  roots here  is  we  keep  this  original  title, which  is,  again, this  kind  of  mechanical  work. If  you  wanted  to  call  it the  all  encompassing  term, it  would  be  thermohysics,  right? So  sometimes  you'll  see that  thrown  around,  right? You  know,  the  link  between heat  and  dynamic  energy. We'll  do  it,  you  know,  in  the  class in  the  sense  that  we'll  do  the  Q  and  the W.  But  if  you  want  to  get  to the  real  link  in  the  mechanism, you  have  to  look  kinetics. You  got  to  get  a  microscope,  look  real  small. You  know,  recognize  that  there's  atoms. These  things,  you  know, bounce  off  of  each  other. And  all  thermal  phenomena  can  basically  be reduced  to  that  kind  of disordered  motion  of  the  atoms, like  a  ton  of  Billi  of  balls, you  know,  chaos  and  hitting. If  you  want  to  learn  more  about  that, the  courses  you  should  be  looking  up  are things  called  like  statistical  mechanics. You  can  go  to  physics  and  see  that,  or  again, my  colleague  Professor  Frank  Locke, who  teaches  that  course. That  is  the  end  of  it,  okay? So  we  don't  deal  in  statistical,  right? We  we're  cooler,  we're  zoomed  out. Everything's  sort  of  continuum. But  if  you  want  to  get  at  the  mechanisms, that's  where  you  got  to  look. Both  theories  are  consistent,  though. Yeah.  And  why  is  that? Because  pretty  much  Thermo  was  founded  from, Hey,  I  have  this  idea  that there's  conservation  of  energy. And  no  experiment  has  been  done  that, like,  disproves  that,  right? So  I  have  these  postulates, and  so  because  of  that, then  it  makes  sense  that  they're both  consistent. Yeah,  so  there's  your  billiard  balls. Okay,  yeah,  so  in  the  pure  thermal  approach, right,  we  have  this  idea,  let's  say, conservation  of  energy,  or,  you  know, entropy  is  always,  you  know,  increasing. And  we  call  those  postulates, and  then  we  do  experiments,  and  we  say,  Hey, does  that  postulate  still  stand  or  not, roughly  how  this  is. Um,  as  we  talked about  last  time  in  the  class,  thermo, the  first  thing  you  should  do in  a  thermodynamics  problem is  to  define  a  volume,  right? Define  a  boundary,  right?  There's  a  boundary. Heat  and  work  interactions  or work  transfer  processes  only happen  at  boundaries. Then  within  that  enclosed  boundary, we  have  a  volume,  and  we  can start  to  talk  about  properties. I  can  take  a  thermometer. I  can  measure  temperature, I  can  take  a  ruler. I  can  measure  volume. I  could  put  a  manometer  on  there. I  could  measure  pressure. And  if  you  measure  enough  of  those, let's  call  them  properties. We'll  get  to  a  second  what  I  mean  by  that. What  I'm  telling  you,  let's  say, if  I  can  measure  the  pressure  in the  volume  or  the  volume  and  the  temperature, I  can  put  this  into  a  formula, and  I  could  predict the  other  property,  right? So  if  you  accept  that  if something's  a  function  of  three  variables, if  I  know  two  of  them,  I could  determine  the  third,  right? We  call  that  an  equation  of  state,  right? Does  anyone  know  an  equation  of  state? I  know  an  equation  that  has  PV and  T  in  it  in  the  back. Electronics.  There  we  go. Ideal  guess.  Wonderful.  Thank  you, Kai.  All  right. So  you  can  express  one  of  those  variables always  as  a  function  of  the  other  two. And  these  variables  should not  themselves  depend  on  each  other,  right? So  it's  not  appropriate  to  take,  like, density  and  specific  volume and  call  them,  right,  independent,  right? Specific  volume  is  one  divided  by  density, so  that  wouldn't  make  sense,  right? But  the  take  home  message  is  that  if  I get  two  of  those  independent  properties, I  know  everything  about  the  system,  right? I  have  complete  information. And  so  a  lot  of  this  course,  so we  draw  the  boundaries,  right? One,  and  two,  a  lot  of  the  work  is figuring  out  which  of those  two  properties  do  we  know?  All  right? Once  we  get  them,  we  know everything  about  that  state,  right? All  right,  so  independent,  independent. Now  we  got  our  multivariable calculus  for  today,  all  right? So  here,  I'm  giving you  a  plot.  Let's  say  this. I  have  X  one  and  X two  as  independent  variables, and  let's  say  that,  I  have  a  third  property, you  know,  X  three,  which  is dependent,  right,  a  function  of  that. Let's  say  that  this  function  is parabolic  in  both  directions. So,  you  know,  X  three  is  X one  squared  plus  X  two  squared,  right? I'm  going  to  end  up  with  a  surface,  right? I'm  going  to  have a  surface  there,  that's  with  it. And  what  I  just  told  you is  that  for  that  function, if  I  define  X  one and  X  two,  I  should  know  X  three. So  what  does  it  look  like?  I  take X  one,  I  fix  the  value. What  does  that  mean? That  means  I  have  a  plane,  right? I  basically  have  a  plane  here. That  plane  intersects  a  surface, and  that  defines  a  line,  right? So  where  that  plane  intersects, you  get  a  line,  okay? And  then  I  go  and  I  say,  Okay, now  I  know  my  value  of X  one,  and  now  I  say  X  two. And  X  two  then  on that  line  can  only  be  a  point,  right? And  I'm  telling  you  this  class is  X  one  and  X  two,  and  you  know  everything. So  I  know  that  X  three,  that's  one  property. But  what  I  also  know  is  that this  is  a  surface  that  has  a  point, and  that  surface  at that  point  has  a  curvature  to  it. It  means  there's  derivatives,  right? So  not  only  do  I  know  where  one  property  is, but  I  also  know  how  that  surface is  changing  from  one  side  to  the  other. There's  more  information  to  it. There's  dx  three,  dx  two  at  constant  X  one, dx  three,  dx  one  at  constant  X  two. So  at  one  point  in  finding  it, actually,  there's  more  there,  all  right? And  I'll  go  through  in a  little  bit  as  to  what those  properties  actually  are,  right? Again,  you  know  X  one  and  X  two, you  know  everything.  Okay,  one. Pure  substances. So  to  make  this  work  where  I  say, okay,  I  know  two  properties, and  then  I  have  complete  information, what  you're  assuming  is  that you're  dealing  with  a  pure  substance. You  can  imagine  that  if  I had  something  pretty  complicated, I'm  going  to  need  more  than  two variables  to  define  that,  right? So  what's  a  pure  substance? Nitrogen,  is  a  pure  substance.  Air,  right? So  air,  and  you  say,  Wow,  prop. But  airs  got  all  that  stuff  in  it. What  I'm  telling  you  is  that actually  it's  a  mixture,  right? And  it's  a  pure  substance. I  take  water.  Alright,  let's  say  the  water, there's  only  water  in  my  container. I  got  liquid  water,  I  got  vapor. What  I'm  telling  you  is that  it's  a  pure  substance. If  I  were  to  take  my  same  air and  start  to  condense  out, let's  say,  oxygen  from  that. So  I  make  liquid  oxygen  within  air, I'm  going  to  tell  you  that's not  a  pure  substance. Allright?  Time.  Sit  with  this, dream  about  it.  It'll  absorb  it. It'll  make  some  sense. But  here's  some  axioms, you  know,  to  look  back  at,  all  right? So,  what  does  that  mean? So  for  these  three  cases, if  I  define,  let's  say,  my,  you  know, temperature  and  pressure  here, I'll  know  everything  about the  nitrogen,  you  know, the  temperature  and  the  pressure  here, I'll  know  about,  you  know,  the  air,  alright? Okay.  So  how  does  that  link to  the  calculations  that  we're  going  to  do? So  what's  the  link  between  the state  postulate  that  I'm  telling you  where  I  only  need  two  pieces of  information,  independent  properties. I  know  it  all,  and  Pi  Kilor. How  this  looks  like  is  you're  going  to  call this  module  Pi  alor  as H.  You're  going  to  define  the  substance. So  you're  going  to  give one  input  is  going  to  be, let's  say,  like,  I  don't  know,  water. You're  going  to  say,  okay,  I  have a  temperature  of  the  water. Maybe  I  have  the  pressure  of the  water.  Give  it  a  name. You  can  give  it  a, you  can  call  it  Tom,  you  know, whatever  you  want,  one,  and  then  ST,  okay? So  X  one  and  X  two, And  with  this,  this  ST is  what  we  call  as  an  object,  right? And  in  objects,  right? So  if  I  want  to  call internal  energy  of  that  object, I'll  go  t  dot  U. If  I  want  to  do  temperature, I  would  do  t  dottpressure, t  dot  p,  and  so  on  and  so  forth. There's  a  whole  bunch  of  things that  you  can  know  once  you're  at  that  state. But  you  know  all  of  this because  you  know  X  one  and  X  two, like  a  temperature  or  a  pressure, all  right?  Go  ahead. So  imagine  you  want  to  do  a  cycle,  right? So  let's  say  we  want  to  do a  PV  diagram  like  this, and  you  want  to  do a  cycle  from  one  point  to  another. Sometimes  it's  convenient  to  label  those. Remember  my  joke  last time  I  talked  about,  you  know, eight  to  one  to  zero  path  A,  you  know, zero  to  one  path  B, and  the  scenic  root. Yeah.  So  basically,  you  can  label  that, and  it  helps  you  because  a  lot of  times  when  you're  doing  these  problems, the  troubleshooting  is  when you  get  into  the  graphs  like  this. You  say,  okay,  was  that the  constant  pressure  process  for  my  A  to  B, is  it  constant  pressure, or  did  I  make a  mistake  and  do  something  else? So  it  helps  you  to  orient. Also,  what  you'll  see  there  is that  when  you  start to  get  into  the  processes, they  draw  arrows,  and  the  arrows  also matter  clockwise, counterclockwise.  Other  questions? You're  with  me?  Cool. All  right.  So  who  named  energy? As  far  as  I  know,  and  this  is  a  guy  who  was in  the  field  that  I  work  in. He  also  was  the  one  who  translated the  Rosetta  stone. So  Thomas  Young,  he  was,  like, a  polymath,  he  did  a  lot  of  things. And  he  coined  the  term  energy  in  18  oh  seven. Lord  Calvin,  another  guy. He  proposed  that  it  be  used  in thermodynamics  in  18  52. And  then  Rudolph  Clausius said  that  it  should  have  a  symbol. We  should  not  just  call  it  energy. Um,  you  know, we  should  call  it  internal  energy. So  that  disordered  thermal  motion. He  said,  we'll  call  that  internal  energy, and  we'll  give  it  the  symbol  of  you. Clausius  was  the  first  chair  of physics  atte  Ha  where  Einstein  was  a  student. It  was  like  1850s  there  ranking. I  don't  remember  where  he  was, I  think  in  the  UK  or  something. Okay,  so  that's  where  our  energy  comes  from. And  as  I  mentioned,  last  time, we're  not  chiefly  concerned  with,  like, absolute  values  of,  um,  of  energy. So  when  we're  talking  about  changes  in,  like, internal  energy  there,  we're  interested  in, like,  differences  from  some  reference  state. You  know,  the  book  talks about,  you  know,  falling  rocks. So  you've  got  a  rock  eye  pie  and  it  falls, and  if  you're  like,  below  that  rock, you  don't  care,  right? Like  what  its  absolute energy  was  before  falling. You  only  care,  like, how  much  it's  fallen  until, you  know,  bogs  down  the  head,  alright? Yeah,  and  so  that's  the  thing. So  what  you'll  see  then  in Pi  Klor  and  other  calculators  like  that  in the  tables  and  books  if  you  decide  to  be old  school  and  go  paper, is  that  the  tabulated  values of  these  things  are  always  with respect  to  some  reference  state,  okay? Ah,  good.  Um,  Yes. So  the  symbols,  right? So  this  little  E,  little  U, big  E,  big  U, if  we  talk  about,  you  know, and  this  is,  you  know,  this  says  units  here of  joules  per  kilogram, so  energy  per  mass,  Correct. And  this  could  apply  to,  like, any  system,  right?  So  you  look  at  any  system. It  could  be  moving, it  could  be  in  a  magnetic  field, you  could  apply  an  electric  field. All  of  that. You're  going  to  talk  about  E,  okay. If  on  the  other  hand,  we  now  take the  same  system  and  we  say that  there's  motion,  no. Okay?  Gravity  No,  right? Electricity,  You  know,  no, and  so  on  and  so  forth,  right? You  can  get  into  magnetism. You  can  get  into  capillarity, surface  effects. We're  disregarding  anything  that  looks, um,  you  know, looks  like  anything  that's  not  thermal. Um  you  know,  related. And  what  we're  going  to  say is  that  our  system,  you  know, we  want  to  talk  about  changes  in energy  for  a  system  where  it  only  depends, let's  say,  on  something  like  temperature and  let's  say  specific  volume,  okay? And  we  could  choose,  you  know,  I  don't  know, temperature  and  pressure  or  something, but  we  say,  okay, for  this  one,  it  only  depends,  let's  say, on  temperature  and  specific  volume. So  we  take  our  total  energy. We  neglect  all  these  effects,  right? So  what  we're  going  to  say  is  that little  E  is  then  equal  to little  U  as  a  function then  of  these  two  independent  properties. Let's  say,  again, temperature  and  specific  volume. This  little  U,  we  give  the  name, just  like  Clausius  did, which  is  then  internal  energy,  okay? Really,  it's  just  like  the  thermal  energy. And  thermal  energy  is  kind  of  a  word that's  thrown  around. And  the  nice  part  about  this,  go  ahead. So  electric  I'm  saying if  I  have  a  boundary  or  control  volume, I'm  not  throwing  it,  right? If  I  take  that,  I'm saying  I'm  not  dropping  it,  right? I'm  saying  here,  I'm  not  applying like  an  electric  field  to  it. Any  kind  of  external  force  I  Yeah, we  simplify  it  and  we  say, I  only  want  this  to  depend, let's  say  on  temperature  and specific  volume  here,  in  this  case. Yes,  please.  So  E  is  joules. It's  energy  on  a  per  mass  basis. So  the  units  are  joules divided  by  kilograms  here. Okay.  And  what's  nice  about  this, so  is  I  can  tabulate  this,  right? I  can  write  like,  my  colleague Professor  Frank  Lock, can  write  like  a  Python  module that  tabulates  all  the  values  of internal  energy  that  depend  on temperature  and  specific  volume. There's  equations. They're  in  short,  complicated. The  one  that's  for,  like,  water, which  they  use  for simulating  the  atmosphere  has, like,  100  variables  to  it  and  all  that. But  there  are  solvers  that go  into  it,  but  it  works,  all  right? Um,  and  it  works. If  I  were  to  go  with,  like, energy  that  accounts  for  all  of  that, I  wouldn't  be  able  to  produce  such  a  table. I'd  have  to  know  the  motion,  right? I'd  have  to  know  a  lot  more  things  to  be able  to  talk  about  what that  energy  is,  right? And  since  here  we're  interested primarily  in heat  exchanges  and  work  transfers, it  makes  sense  that,  you know,  we'll  neglected. Things  like  motion  and gravity  will  come  back  in. We'll  be  able  to  deal  with  those  things. But  for  now,  this  is  what  we're  doing. So  that's  the  little  U. Big  U,  right,  has  units  of  just  joules. And  how  do  we  get  to  that,  right? So  big  U  is  then  equal  to the  integral  of  the  little  U  times  dm, and  then  the  same  for  big  E.  So  big E  has  units  of  joules. So  when  I  write  this  bracket  equals  brackets, this  means  for  me,  I'm going  to  tell  you  what  a  unit  is. And  so  the  E  is  then  equal  to little  E  times  dm,  okay? Really,  what  you'll  do  in  practice a  lot  of  times  is  we'll  come  up  with,  like, you  know,  it  might  be  like  a  fixed  mass, and  then  it  might  be  times like  U  two  minus  U  one. So  that,  you  know,  it's not  uncommon  for  something like  a  big  Delta  U, so  U  two  minus  U  one  to  be  equal  to,  like, M  times  Delta  U, or  this  might  be  like  state  two minus  state  one,  okay? Cool.  All  right.  I  wait  for  time. All  right,  rocking  and  rolling. Okay.  I  thought  we were  done  with  the  microscopic, alright,  there's  one  more  slide. So  internal  energy  then. So  how  does  a  system  like, you  know,  how  does  the  system then  hold  energy  in  it? How  does,  how  do  moving atoms  and  stuff  hold  it? Right?  The  first  one  is  translational. So  if  you  ever  look  at,  like,  an  ideal  gas, how  does  an  ideal  gas  hold  energy and  then  the  next  step  after  that is  Not  bonds,  right? So  the  simulation  that  I  showed you  before  with  the  ping  pong  balls, how  would  you  describe the  energy  of  that  system? Kinetic,  right? It's  translational,  right?  Translational. So  that's,  like,  one  way.  You  get  to more  sophisticated  molecules  that  can, like,  hold  onto  each  other. You  know,  there,  you  know, you're  going  to  have  what's  called, especially, like  water  when  it's  condensed,  right? So  you  have  sort  of,  like,  strong interactions,  hydrogen  bonding. You  got  to  break  things  like  that,  right? So  that's  why  it takes  so  much  energy  to,  like, boil  water,  right?  Chemical  energy,  right? So  you  can  have  reactions, and  then  that  last  one,  right? And,  yeah,  all  of  those  are,  you  know, all  those  different  storage  mechanisms then  contribute  to  what  we'll call  is  internal  energy. Cool. All  right,  so  if  I  come back  now  to  what  I  had  told  you  before. So  what  I  had  mentioned  before  was  that  if I  have  two  independent variables  X  one  and  X  two, and  I  have  a  function, all  right,  you  know, that  can  then  relate  those two  to  a  third  property,  X  three. I  showed  you  that  X  one squared  plus  X  two  squared  thing  there. So  I  have  two  independent  properties. And  then  with  that, I'm  going  to  be  able  to  define this  point  on  this  surface  there, and  with  that,  I  have complete  information,  all  right? And  I  told  you  that,  in  this  case, you  can  determine  X  three, but  by  taking  the  derivatives,  right, of  those  two  independent  variables  there, there's  additional  information,  right? And  this  plot  here, I'm  saying  there's  internal  energy versus  a  variable  S.  We'll  get  to  S, internal  energy  against  specific  volume. If  I  take  internal  energy at  specific  volume,  at  this  point, and  I  take  the  derivative, I  get  pressure,  all  right? So  not  only  do  I  know  internal  energy by  knowing  the  volume  and  this  variable, which  is  kind  of  a  little  like  temperature, Not  only  do  I  know  internal  energy, but  I  also  know  pressure. And  I  take  the  derivative  then  of du  dx  one  for  fixed  X  two, and  I  get  temperature,  right? So  it's  like  you  find  your  point  in space  and  you  get everything  else  from  it,  right? It's  just  math.  It's  like  derivatives. It's  like  second  order  derivatives, and  all  of  that  there. But  your  job  really  is  chiefly  to  say, figure  out  things  like  X one  and  X  two  in  your  system, and  all  the  rest  of  the  properties will  follow  from  that,  okay? It's  kind  of  weird  now, but  it  will  make  sense  soon,  okay? So  to  shake  things  up, and  I  love  to  do  this  in  this  class,  okay? I  can  also  get  into the  science  and  evidence  for  how this  improves  your  learning if  you  care  to  know  that. But  we're  going  some  group  work  for  a  second. I  need  to  launch  the  poll, so  just  give  me  a  second. I'm  a  little  bit  rusty  in my  rollout  of  these  things. But  for  the  moment,  just  read  the  given  here. The  given  is  that  you  have a  container  that  has  constant  mass  in  it. Alright,  so  you  have  a  rigid  container that  means  it  doesn't  expand, it  doesn't  contract.  There's  some  mass  in  it. You  know,  all  of  the  information  at state  one  here,  okay? Then  you're  going  to  do  a  process. The  process  is  pretty  simple. You're  just  going  to  heat  it,  right? So  you  put  it  on  the  stove  or  something and  you  start  to  heat  this  thing. And  you  keep  the  volume  at the  container  constant,  right? And  I  have  two  questions  for  you. The  first  is,  what  is the  change  in  internal  energy  of  the  system? And  the  second  is,  how  would  you  determine the  state  after  the  heat  is  transferred? So  basically  state  two.  All  right? Now,  what  I  want  you  to  do  is  you'll  open this  once  I  get  through  my  dual  mobile  login, and  I  need  hyper  secure  because  why? Yeah,  and  of  course,  I  need to  then  redo  that. So  once  that's  able  to  do, you'll  be  able  to  do  that  and  log  in. And  then  what  you  want  to  do  is  to put  your  names  there, and  be  ready  put your  names  there,  answer  the  questions, and  then  be  ready  to, like,  when  I  call  out  on  like a  group  to  be  able  to  give  an  answer,  okay? So  just  bear  with  me  for  a  second. One,  Mississippi,  two  polls. Lecture  one  B. Okay. All  right.  Anyway,  so  what  you  can  do, all  right,  to  determine these  points  and  look  at  it  graphically, we  can  take  something  like  water,  okay? A  lot  of  times  we're  plotting those  dependent or  independent  properties  against  each  other. Bless  you.  This  case  is pressure  in  specific  volume. You  could  go  in  and produce  in  that  plot what  we  call  saturation  regions. So  something  like  water  can  be  a  vapor, it  can  be  a  liquid,  it  can be  ice.  It  can  coexist. A  lot  of  times  we  only  care  about vapor  and  liquid  there,  right? And  so  these  plots  can show  you  where  you  have  the  vapor, what  we  call  superheated  vapor. Where  we  have  liquid,  and  then  everything in  between  here  is  going from  a  very  high  density  or low  specific  volume  to a  low  density  or  a  high  specific  volume  here. In  thermal  parlance,  we  call  this  the  dome, not  the  thunder  dome,  just  the  dome,  okay? But  you  can  represent  these  graphically. You  can  also  put  things  on  there what  we  call  isotherms. So  lines  of  constant  temperature  there. This  is  mostly  for  your  information. The  other  thing  that  you'll note  on  my  slides, most  of  the  slides  when  I  do this  is  if  you  click  on  this  You can  launch  a  Jupyter  Notebook, which  reproduces  all  of  this. So  if  you  want  to  get an  tweak  and  see  how  this  is  done, you're  able  to  do  that  there. Shout  out  to  our  data  science  colleagues who  run  the  data  Hub  here  that allow  us  to  do  that.  Equilibrium,  right. So  most  of  the  equilibrium  you've learned  until  now  is  mechanical  equilibrium, sum  of  forces  is  equal  to  zero. An  equilibrium  in  thermo, in  addition  to,  let's  say, a  sum  of  forces  or  a  sum  of  pressure, being  zero,  you  also  have  temperature, right,  everywhere  being  zero,  right? You  should  have  no  transfer  of  heat,  right, no  heat  that's  flowing, no  mass  that's  flowing,  right? All  of  that,  you  know, you'll  be  able  to  say  that  you're at  equilibrium,  okay. Another  way  is  that  essentially your  properties  don't  really  vary,  right? They're  kind  of  time  variant  in  variant and  you're  essentially  in equilibrium  or  maybe  quasi, depending  on  system.  Okay? So  again,  that  was  that  representation  PV. This  is  how  something  like  an expansion  process  might  look  like. So  what  I  was  showing  here, like  the  one  to  two, there  was  questions  about why  I  would  label  it. Here's  how  the  Python  does  that  for  you. So  I  have  state  one,  saturated  vapor. I  expand  that  to  a  higher  specific  volume, and  I  get  to  state  two,  and that's  at  constant  pressure, isobaric  Alright,  you  know, and  so  essentially, that's  what  a  process will  look  like  for  you  there. Again,  you  can  launch  that  script  and  see  it. Yeah.  What  I'll  finish with  here  then  is  sort  of  a  difference. So  remember  before  when  we  were  talking about  work  and  how  it's  a  path  function, I'm  going  to  give  you  an  illustrative  example of  why  that's  the  case. So  I'm  going  to  consider two  experiments,  digital  experiments. One  is  I  take  that  piston. Remember  a  piston  is  just  like a  big  cylindrical  hole  and  then  a  plunger, like  a  bike  pump  there. I'm  going  to  displace  it  slowly, so  I'm  going  to  compress  this  gas. I'm  going  to  measure temperature  and  pressure  of  it. And  then  I  want  to  do  it  very  fast,  okay? So  the  left  one  is  this  slow  process. I'm  going  to  compress  slowly, and  the  right  is  the  fast, and  we're  going  to  watch  the  difference in  the  properties,  all  right? So  what  you'll  notice first  is  that  when  you  compress  slowly, you  get  to  a  smaller  volume,  all  right? One,  two, the  second  thing  to  pay attention  to  is  the  temperature. If  you  compress  slowly, the  temperature  is  less at  the  end  than  if  you  do  it  fast. What's  the  reason?  If  I  do  anything  fast, right?  Friction,  heat,  right? I'm  going  to  move  that  fluid. It's  then,  at  some  point,  just  going  like the  billiard  balls  bang  off  of  each  other. And  eventually,  that's  just going  to  be,  you  know, essentially  result  in  a  warming of  that  container,  all  right? This  process,  when  we  move  things  slowly, what  term  we  call  it  is  reversible,  right? Reversible.  When  we  do things  fast,  it's  irreversible. And  the  reason  why  I  write Delta  W  most  of  the  time  is because  I  don't  know  necessarily which  one  of  them  I'm  following. That's  the  main  reason,  okay? Okay,  with  that,  that's the  bell.  So  we'll  close  it. Everyone,  have  a  great  long  weekend, and  we'll  see  you  next  Wednesday.
