Welcome,  everyone  to  Lecture  ten  A. This  week,  we're  doing continuing  power  cycles, but  we're  going  to  talk about  vapor  power  cycles. Last  week  we're  talking  about  gas. This  we're  talking  about  vapor. You're  going  to  tell  me vapor  and  gas  of  the  same  thing. And  then  I'm  going  to  remind  you  that a  vapor  cycle  includes  both  the  vapor and  the  condensing liquid  component  categories. As  I  presented  it  before, the  two  cycles  we're  going  to  be talking  about  for  the  previous  weeks and  for  the  next  couple  ones are  these  power  cycles bless  you  and  refrigeration. Refrigeration  will  do  next  week. But  this  week  we're  still  talking about  power. Within  those  power  cycles, we  had  the  gas  or  the  idealized  Brayton. So  we  talked  a  bit  about,  we  talk  a  bit. We  basically  defined  the  Brayton  cycle, the  ideal  one  applied  to  power. Also  on  Friday,  we  then  talked about  actually  applying  that  to  propulsion. So  the  jet  propulsion  cycle  being essentially  based  on  that. And  today,  and  for the  next  couple  of  days  for  this  week, we're  going  to  work  at  the  vapor equivalent  of  that  Brayton  that  we  mentioned. And  the  point  is  that there's  a  point  where  it's  a  liquid, and  then  there's  a  point  where  it's  a  vapor. Okay,  so  we analyze  Caro  right? One  of  the  principles  of  Carno was  that  the  working  fluid  didn't  matter. I  told  you  that,  right? Like  it  didn't  come  up. You  know,  when  we  define  the  efficiency of  it,  it  was  one  minus  what? Okay.  So  let's  be  specific  though. I'm  giving  you  a  fraction, so  that's  my  leading. What's  my  numerator  in  this  fraction? Yeah.  Okay.  So  maybe from  the  middle  part  of  the  room. T  L.  So  TL  means  low. Let's  call  it  T  cold  over  TH,  right? Yes.  The  idea  is  that  if  we  had a  really  high  temperature  and a  really  cold  temperature to  the  point  that  was  there, it  is  the  temperatures,  but  it's the  ratio  of  the  temperature  of the  cold  reservoir  to the  temperature  of  the  hot. Maybe  in  the  one  in  two  convention that's  consistent  there. The  idea  being  that  if  I  crank  this  baby  up, or  I  bring  this  one  down, I  get  better  and  closer  to  perfection, which  is  one  in  thermodynamics. Okay.  We  drew  it,  right? We  drew  a  box.  We  draw rectangle,  and  it  look  like  that. And  I  said,  We  don't care  about  the  working  fd. I'm  going  to  tell  you. Have  to  care  a  little  bit. All  right?  So  here's  what  I'm  drawing. So  I  would  take  that  box,  and I  draw  this  line.  Remember? This  line  that  we  have  here our  favorite  color  chalk. No  they  take  it  all  from  me. So  if  I  draw  our  dome,  right. What's  this  part  of  the  region  on  the  dome? So  you  have  some  super  vapor, what's  in  here?quid  vapor  here. Liquid.  And  then  what's  hidden  from  view? And  what's  up  here?  Super  critical.  Okay. So  if  I  draw  the  box  in  here,  right? Depending  on  where  I  place  it, I'm  going  to  be  in  different  regimes,  right? It's  going  to  affect  the  state  of  the  fluid, since  now  we're  dealing with  this  vapor  cycle, which  is  going  to  inherently involve  some  type  of  phase  change. So  you're  going  to  go  from maybe  vapor  into  liquid, maybe  supercritical fluid  into  liquid  and  vapor, but  it's  going  to  involve  phase  change. And  depending  on  how  you  draw  that, there  might  be  practical  issues,  right? So  theoretically  it  all  holds, but  there  might  be  practical  issues  into drawing  the  box  like this  or  in  the  other  one, I  give  you  the  example,  as it's  drawn  like  that. We'll  walk  through  that  really  quickly  now. If  we  think  about  this  part  at this  high  temperature  process where  we're  injecting some  heat.  That's  isothermal. We  know  if  we're  dealing, for  example,  with  water, which  is  the  most  commonly  used  substance, that  that  should  be  straightforward,  right? If  I  go  in  here  and  I  inject  it, that's  going  to  be  an  isothermal  process. I  can  do  my  heat  injection,  so  my  QTDS. There,  that  all  looks  good. Same  on  the  other  side  there  with  it. Challenge  becomes  though  when  we're working  at  these  parts. So  what's  happening  here  in  this  case, I  have a  decreasing  temperature  at  constant  entropy, so  that's  going  to  be  some  kind  of a  work  transfer  process. On  the  other  side, I  have the  increasing  temperature at  constant  entropy. Intuitively,  I'm  going  to say  this  is  probably  my  pump,  right? This  is  probably  my  pump  part  of  it. And  then  that's  probably my  turbine  and  extraction. What's  happening  when  I go  from  this  state  to  this  state? Bless  you. He's  not  wrong. He  generated  some  droplets,  huh? So  Yeah,  you  have  some  condensation. And  what  does  that  mean  that  I'm starting  to  have  condensation  while I'm  doing  my  work  transfer  process? Bless  you.  We're  allergic. Hopefully,  not  to  the  second  to the  cycles  here.  Okay? You  have  these  blades.  These  blades are  spinning  really  fast. Very  fast.  In  the  turbine. Remember,  I  showed  you  this  thing. Now,  what  happens  if  I  take  anybody that's  moving  really  fast and  and  hit  an  object. It  slows  down.  What  happens  if that  object  starts  to  have  some  mass  to  it? How  does  it  slow  down? Friction.  What  happens  when I  have  something  super  fast? Another  thing  hits  it,  there's  friction. What  do  you  expect  to  happen  to  that? Let's  say  in  this  case,  blade. Heating,  If  I  keep  hitting  this, over  and  over  and  over  again, do  you  think  that  there  might  be some  damage  that's  incurred  on  this? It  is.  This  is  a  main  thing  that will  a  up  a  turbine,  droplets. So  in  my  community,  we  do  repelling  surfaces. There  was  a  lot  of  work that  went  into  dealing  with repelling  droplets  and  stuff  like that  because  they  hit  and  they  rode. They  basically  rode  and  they  damage  it. So  this  is  in  a  word,  great. On  this  side,  you  have  a  pump. What's  happening  here? What  are  you  trying  to  pump? What  does  pumping  this  look  like? You  are  pumping  both  what? Okay.  But  what  are  you  pumping  here  though? A  mixture.  You're  like  pumping  vapor and  you  are  pumping  liquid.  I  don't  know. To  me,  it  doesn't  look  great.  Like  it doesn't  look  like  and  it  isn't. It's  not  a  practical  thing.  So  that's  it. This  is  not  really,  I can  draw  the  rectangle.  All  right? I  don't  want  to  belabor  the  point, but  there  are  reasons  why  you  don't just  take  the  box  and  draw the  rectangle  on  the  TS  diagram when  you  have  something  with phase  change  in  the  dome. It's  not  really  here,  I  don't  think  really  on the  injection  of  heat  or  transfer  of  heat. I  think  that's  good. It's  more  on  the  practicalities of  work  extraction  and  putting  it  in. I  think  it's  just  fundamentally  hard  to pump  two  different  fluids,  right. Although  I  think  there  might  be  utility. And  then  here  on  the  extraction  part  of  it, it  will  straight  up  I  mean, it  will  destroy  it. Maybe  you've  also  seen examples  of  things  like  cavitation. Does  anyone  know  what  cavitation  is? Any  people  who  spent any  amount  of  time  in  a  boat? Yeah.  Here.  What  happens  in  cavitation? Yes.  Yeah.  It  basically  boils,  right? You  make  little  bubbles,  but  then these  little  bubbles  collapse, and  they  can  erode. And  in  a  matter  of  minutes, you  can  basically  a  propeller. Two  phase  flow,  multi  phase  is  great, but  it  can  also  be  very  dangerous if  you  don't  handle  it  correctly.  All  right? And  then  I  side,  I  won't  belabor  it. You  can  read  it  in  the  text  and  go  into  it. But  again,  there's  difficulties  now, in  this  case  with  keeping this  isothermal  heat  transfer  into  here. In  this  case  here,  then  going also  from  supercritical  to vapor  or  liquid  to  supercritical  in  pumping. I  think  maybe  the  34  is  permissible, but  then  the  three  other  parts  of  this become  difficult  to  achieve  practically. That's  why  you  don't  try  the  box. Is  at  the  end  of  today,  so  we  just  go  home. We  say  carno  doesn't  work  and  can  move  on. Of  course  not.  This  is  what  you  do. The  Rankin  cycle  is like  a  bit  like  the  carno  cycle, but  accounting  for  the  peculiarities of  phase  change,  right? So  I  don't  know  if  Thomas  is  in  here, but  it's  not  exactly  isomorphic, but  you  can  see  that  at  least  there  it's rectangle  is  within  it  there. That's  how  it  looks  like. Again,  with  the  Rankin  cycle, you  typically  have  a  pump, you  have  a  work  transfer  into  the  pump, That  brings  you  into  a  boiler. A  boiler.  You're  effectively transferring  huge  amounts  of  heat. This  can  be  from  burning  coal, hard  coal,  as  was  done  for  a  long  time. This  can  be  done  from  natural  gas, or  can  be  done  from  nuclear. Nuclear  and  also  from  solar, you  just  take  a  ton  of heat  and  you  transfer  it  in. This  is  usually  a treated  as  an  isobaric  process. Again, remember  before  when  we  were  dealing  with these  heat  additions  in the  previous  cycles  here, when  you  do  that  heat  addition  here, you  treat  that  as  isobaric  there, which  should  be  valid,  correct? I'm  boiling  something.  If  it's  water, that  phase  change  process  should happen  over  a  constant  pressure  condition, so  that's  not  an  unreasonable Assumption.  Now  you  take super  high  pressure  or  high  pressure  steam, you  send  that  into  the  turbine. You  spin  these  blades, it  expands  Remember  where it  enters  into  turbines the  smallest  section  and  then  you  have  this, gradual  expansion  work  out. What  comes  out  of  here  at  state  four  at state  four  is  you're  going  to  be  saturated. If  you  play  this  right,  you're  saturated, if  you  play  it  wrong,  You're going  to  be  in  a  mixed  region. You're  going  to  be  coming  out  with a  mixed  vapor  liquid. You're  going  to  be  destroying the  heck  out  of  your  blades, your  boss  is  going  to  be  pissed,  stuff. Then  it  comes  back  into  the  condenser  and the  condenser  is  where you  transfer  all  this  heat  out. In  the  United  States,  half  of all  the  groundwater  that  we  take  out every  single  fricking  year  goes  into  this. It  passes  through  this  device, and  then  it  goes  back  into  the  rounds. It's  from  river  water,  it's  from groundwater,  it  can  be  from  the  sea, but  it's  an  unbelievable  amount  of  water  that we  need  to  use  to  take  the  entropy out  of  this  system. Okay.  And  I'll  touch a  little  bit  on  this  later  because this  gets  into  our  research  activities. So  now  we're  getting  to challenges  present  challenges  today on  the  way  to  decarbonization. So  then  if  you  take  that  out  correctly, so  your  saturated  vapor  here, just  to  orient  to  your  here  on  four. You  take  that  heat  out, now  your  saturated  liquid. And  then  with  the  pump,  right  or compressor  depending  on  how you  want  to  call  it. But  essentially  you  pass  through  that  device isentropically  and  you  then  raise yourself  back  up  to  that  kind  of high  pressure  at  state  two,  right? So  this  part  here, you  have  a  minimal  work  transfer  in. Y?  So  what  did we  say  about  work  transfer  depending on  specific  volumes? Right? So,  you  know,  so  we  have this,  you  know,  PDV  stuff. The  point  is  that  if  we're looking  at  or  dealing with  fluids  that  are  very  dense,  right? And  we're  trying  to  pump  them. You  know,  it  doesn't  take  a  lot  of  work compared  to  the  case where  we  have  an  expansion, and  we  have  very  low  density  or a  very  high  specific  volume, there  we  can  get  a  lot  out. That's  the  game  you're  playing  with  this  with the  pumping  is  that, you  know,  when  you  pump  in  here, it's  not  actually  quite  a  lot  of work  transfer  because  it's  essentially an  incompressible  liquid that's  of  high  density. Okay,  whatever? The  point  is  that  that  is  how the  ideal  cycle  for  a  vapor  power  cycle  is. Again,  just  by  convention  as  the  name, this  is  normally  referred  to  as  a  rank  as a  Rankin  cycle.  Each  element. So  if  we  look  at  each  element  in  this  system, You  know,  you're  going  to  analyze  them as  steady  flow,  right? So  steady  flow.  So  this is  not  like  when  we're  dealing  with the  pistons  or  we transfer  some  heat  and  it  expands  in  and  out. You  know,  each  of  these  things,  there's no  change  in  volume  in  them,  okay? So  there's  no  change  in  volume. So  we  don't  have something  with  a  change  in  volume. What  are  the  types  of  work  transfer  you  can have  from  a  system  where the  volume  doesn't  change? So  V  is  a  constant. Therefore,  you  know,  boundary  work, P  V  is  out,  right? We  don't  have  boundary  work  here. So  what  are  the  types  of  work  that  you  can extract  from  a  steady  flow  device? Flow  work  is  one.  Okay,  Let  me  be  precise. Specifically  work  transfer  mechanisms from  open  flow?  Flow  work  is  one? Yes.  You  have  a  turbine  there? What  does  the  turbine  do? What  type  of  work  does that  extract  or  transfer? Shaft.  So  that  shaft  out. You  can  also  have  shaft  in  when  you  deal  with the  compressor,  right?  Okay. And  since  we  don't  want  to  have flow  work  in  the  total  work  of  our  system, how  do  we  extract  flow  work  out? What  term  do  we  deal  with  there?  Enthalpy. What  you're  going  to  see  in  a  lot  of this  analysis  is  this  is all  in  the  end  boil  down to  differences  in  enthalpies. It's  going  to  be an  enthalpy  change  across  this, enthalpy  change  across  that, entopy  change  across  this. Why?  Because  you're  normally  also  neglecting kinetic  energy  and  potential  energy  terms. This  is  not  like  the  jet  engine, where  your  whole  existence is  just  go  fast,  like  in  KE. Here,  you  can  also  do  the  calculations. It  turns  out  that  they  are really  not  important  terms relative  to  the  differences  in  enthalpy, especially  because  it's involving  phase  change. The  huge  differences in  For  example,  with  water, you  take  water,  you  want  to  boil 1  gram  of  water,  that's  two  kilojules. Two  kilo  joules.  It's  insane  amount  of energy  that  you  were  not  insane. It's  a  big  amount  of  energy  that  you  have  to put  in  to  do  the  phase  change, and  it  just  means  the  other  ones  are not  comparable,  they're  not  comparable. But  we  can  walk  through  that. The  point  is  that  the  steady  flow  equation. Steady  means  that  remember this  DE  DT  of our  system  where  the  system is  now  applied  to  each  element. So  if  you  say, this  is  my  system  boiler  system turbine  system  condenser  system  pump. We're  not  dealing  with unsteady,  so  that's  out. You're  not  dealing  with  KE or  PE,  those  are  out. It's  also  steady  in  the  sense  that the  mass  flow  rates  in are  equal  to  the  mass  flow  rates out.  So  it's  just  M  dot. And  in  the  end  because each  of  the  remaining  terms  are this  specific  heat  in  or  work  in  and  out  or, you  know,  Delta  enthalpies, they  all  have  an  M  dot  multiplied  by  them. Actually,  the  n  dot  drops  out.  So  this  is  it. The  steady  flow  energy  equation applied  to  each  of these  sort  of  control  volumes, open  control  volumes  looks  like  that. The  net  heat  in,  the  net  work in  is  equal  to  the  difference  in the  enthalpy  leaving  minus the  enthalpy  flow  entering. So  let's  go  through  each  of  them. So  first  with  the  pump,  All right.  So  with  your  pump? If  it's  a  good  pump,  there  shouldn't  be heat  transfer  in  the  pump,  right? They're  small,  they're  compact. They're  not  big  areas  for  heat  transfer. And  so,  you  know, you  don't  have  heat  transfer. So  then  the  difference  in  the  work in  and  workout  here. There  is  no  workout,  right?  In  the  pump. You're  basically  transferring  work  in  to compress  or  pump  the  fluid. So  that  term  is  also  out, the  pumping  in  is  equal  to  the entp  exiting  the  pump  at  state two  minus  the  entop  of  the  fluid entering  at  at  one. And  so  exactly  I'm  sorry, so  this  is  equal  to,  I wrote  this  before  wrong,  right? The  work  then  in  these  cases  is the  specific  volume  different. So  the  work  in  the  case  of  the  pump  then  is the  specific  volume  multiplied  by the  pressure  drop  across  the  device, the  point  being  that  if  this  is  really  big, like  in  the  case  of  a  turbine, it's  a  lot  of  work. If  it's  really  small, like  in  the  case  of  a  pump, it's  not  relatively  a  lot of  work.  Anyways,  that's  the  point. You  have  this  difference  in  the  enthalpy. You  can  also  know  this. If  you  just  know the  states  that  you  have  there, you  can  compute  enthalpy  two  minus entop  or  if  you know  and  you're  assuming  again, this  ideal  isotropic  behavior, it's  just  going  to  be  simply the  specific  volume  times the  pressure  drop  across. Exactly.  Then  if  you  go  back  to  where Ste  one  was  on  our  diagram, state  one  is  a  saturated  liquid, State  two  is  like  can  I  see  here. This  is  like  you  have  a  liquid. You've  now  raised  the  pressure of  it  through  pumping. Is  it  a  compressed  liquid? Compressed  liquids  usually  in  the  tables are  like  5  megapascals. That's  like  50  times  atmospheric  pressure. Sometimes  you're  not  getting  there. I  was  reading  that apparently  state  of  the  boilers, I  think  maybe  get  up  to  20  megapascal. You  may  not  find  that  on  the  table. It's  again  a  spectrum. But  the  point  is  that  it's  a  liquid. Then  after  that  heat  addition, you  have  a  constant  pressure  heat addition  that  happens. The  analysis  for  the  pump,  the  H  one, then  enthalpy one  then  would  be  the  enthalpy  of the  fluid  at  that  saturated  pressure  P  one, and  the  specific  volume at  state  one  is  then  assumed to  be  the  saturated  fluid  at  state  one, which  I  have  to  say  isn't  a  bad  assumption because  you're  start  again, if  you  did  the  job  right,  you  were  starting at  saturated  liquid  at  that  point. Okay.  So  now  we  come  to  the  boiler. So  now  this  is  two  to  three. The  point  of  what the  boiler  is  that  this  is  going  to be  a  situation  where it's  going  to  be  a  constant you're  going  to  transfer  heat in  at  constant  pressure just  to  remind  you  of  how  that's  going to  look  like,  but  it's  a  heat  in. There  is  going  to  be  no  work,  right? You're  not  going  to  do  any  sort  of work  extraction  in  the  sense of  shaft  work,  right? So  we  don't  have  any  shaft  work. That's  happening  there. So  this  WN  WO, this  is  the  shaft  work  business. An  sort  of  flow  work  is  then  going  to  be contained  into  the  enthalpy  cases  there, and  that's  going  to be  a  tremendous  difference. Right?  You're  going  to  come  in  as  a  liquid, you're  going  to  leave  as  a  vapor.  Right? If  you  started  as a  saturated  liquid  and  you  leave  as a  saturated  vapor  or  a  superheated  vapor as  in  the  idealized  cycle, that's  going  to  be  a  lot  of  enthalpy. It's  going  to  be  a  big  number. If  it's  a  small  number  in your  analysis,  Something's  not  right. But  it's  going  to  be  a  big  number. But  then  the  neat  part  about  this is  because  of  how  we  set  it  up, that  heat  is  just  the  enthalpy at  state  three  minus the  enthalpy  at  state  two.  There's  no  work. In  the  case  of  the  turbine, again,  this  is  isnropic. So  you  assume  it's  is  operate  isnropically. It's  operating  adiabatically. You  don't  have  heat  being transferred  in  and  out. And  it's  work  out.  There  is  no  work  in, its  work  that's  going  out. And  so  that  is  simply the  difference  between  the  enthalpy at  state  three  minus the  enthalpy  at  state  four. And  bringing  it  home  then  in  the  condenser. Again,  in  the  condenser,  at this  stage  now,  you  have  Q  out. This  is  again  constant. This  isobaric  be  a  constant  pressure  process. Again,  that's  only  going  to  be  now equal  to  the  difference  between the  entropy  at  state  four minus  the  entropy  of  state  one. So  now  I  hope  you  start  to  see  why  we  spent all  that  time  talking  about  entropy because  when  you  get into  these  bigger  systems, it  becomes  very  easy. It's  very  easy  to  work  with  and  handle  that. And  then  the  thermal  efficiency  of this  is  nothing  but what  I  care  about,  remember. In  our  thermodynamic  accounting, so  we  care  about  the  work  out, the  shaft  work  out,  divided  by the  heat  transfer  in. And  that's  just  equal  to  one  minus  Q out  divided  by  Q. Does  that  make  sense? All  we've  done  is  we  took  carno. We  applied  the  fact  that  there's some  peculiarities  about  having  phase  change, we've  adapted  ourselves  to  that  to  try  to make  it  optimal  and  analyze.  Yes,  please. Yes. The  condenser.  The  condenser  here, again,  we  start  from  the  same  equation. We  don't  have  kinetic  energy, we  don't  have  potential  energy. We  are  in  steady  state. The  DDT  goes  away,  the  dots  go  away. This  is  what  you're  ended  up  with. The  condenser,  we  don't have  a  shaft  in  their  spinning. We're  not  spinning  some  propeller. There  is  no  work  out,  there  is  no  work  in. In  reality,  what  this  looks  like, if  you  ever  see  one,  is there  amazing  systems. They're  like  10,000  pipes. Like  as  long  as  this  table, the  surface  area,  then  in  each  pipe, you  pump  cooling  water into  them  from  the  river, and  on  the  outside  of  these  pipes, that's  where  the  steam  condenses,  right? And  then  it  drains  and  it  pumps. And  the  surface  area  involved  in  this  is measured  in  Cal  football  field  areas. They  are  huge  huge  devices. But  they  don't  have  a  shaft  in  them. There's  no  work  involved. So  that  difference  in  the  work  is  out. We're  not  transferring  heat  in. The  heat  is  being  transferred  out. That's  being  actually  rejected  two  rivers, two  lakes,  two  groundwater. To  some  extent,  they're sometimes  done  to  air, but  that's  less  efficient  because you  can't  get  to  the  low  temperatures then  that  are  there. In  the  end,  all  you  have  is  this  Q  out, and  you  have your  enthalpy  difference  for  that. That's  the  case  of  the  condenser. In  the  case  of  the  turbine,  we  assume, just  like  we  did  in  Carno  that  these  devices, let's  see  where  we're  doing  the  work  transfer that  they're  operating  isentropically. Isentropic,  isentropic, therefore,  they're  adiobatic. We  don't  have  any  heat  generation. We're  not  transferring  heat  in for  these  things  to  operate. So  you  keep the  same  perfect  no  loss  conditions. And  so  then  in  the  end, this  energy  balance  that we  have  simply  becomes  this. Yes.  So  I  cycle. Then  you  have  the  deviation. Coming  to  this  point about  this  analysis  and saying  that  everything  is  isotropic, what  does  it  look  like  if  it's  not? What  does  it  look  like  when  you have  revers  irreversibilities  there? The  first  question  is  where  is an  irreversibility  in  a  cycle like  this  come  from? I'll  stand  here  for  10  minutes. I'm  not  going  on.  Friction  in  the  turbine. Where's  another  place  of your  reversibilities? Insulation.  Specifically  what? So  when  we  analyze  this  entropy  analysis, where  did  we  sometimes  generate  entropy? Where  was  there  an  entropy  generation leading  to  the  point about  We'll  go  for  it,  go. To  have  heat  transfer, what  do  we  have  a  difference  in? Are  the  same  temperatures or  at  different  temperatures? Different  temperatures,  right? If  you  have  now  anything  at a  different  temperature  and a  net  flux  that's  there, you  can't  put  the  genie  back  in the  bottle,  like  literally. Hat,  mass,  momentum,  once  it's  out, it's  it.  So  that's  a  very  good  point. So  Insulation  you  do  to prevent  exactly  that  type  of  process. Where's  the  final  one  where  that  we think  that  we  could  have  your  reversibilitie? So  we  said  turbine, we  said  insulation  and  heat  transfer. What's  the  last  one? Pressure  drop  in  the  food. So  I'm  just  saying  across  the  boiler, we  have  an  idealized  case. We  had  a  constant  pressure  process. Pressure  drop,  yes. I  think  that  I  could  buy. Now  there's  one  more? Yes.  He  add  it  at  the  pump? Yeah.  Friction.  Friction  in  the  pump. Right?  So  yeah.  Okay.  Oh,  now I  realize  the  answers  are  on  the  board. Okay.  Cool.  Fun.  So  you  were  testing  me. Good.  That's  also  fun. Anyways,  you  see  that.  So  again,  you  know, you  can  have  this  different irreversibilities. If  you  just  focus  on  the  cases  of the  work  transfer  from the  turbine  or  from  the  pump, which  I'm  assuming  if  we  do a  good  job  insulating,  which  isn't  hard. You  can  do  that  pretty  well. But  it's  probably  pretty  hard to  deal  with  being friction  lists  like  in  practice  with  it. That's  how  it  would  look  like  in  the  case  of a  turbine  with  an  actual  change in  entropy  versus  the  idealized  one, and  then  in  the  case  of  the  pump there  as  well. Okay. Then  the  way  that you'll  see  this  in  the  book, perhaps,  maybe  a  bit  in  the  homework, just  as  we  had  done  the  analysis  before, is  you  have  the  isotropic  behavior, and  then  you  have  the  real  one. So  a  lot  of these  problems,  you're  either  going to  be  given  like  the idealized  and  then  the  real entropy  change  or  you  might be  told  this  pump  operates with  90%  deficiency. This  thing  operates  with  90%  efficiency. Based  on  that  pump  operating with  some  90%  efficiency, you  can  then  go  on  and  then compute  what  the  actual  entropy is  versus  the  real  one  and  then integrate  that  into  a  full  analysis. I'll  spare  you  a  bit  of  that  for  now. Maybe  we'll  work  through  that later  in  the  week  when  we  get  to some  more  sophisticated  systems like  regeneration  and  that. Are  there  questions  so  far?
