All  right,  I  got  210. So  I'm  going  to  get  started. Today,  we're  going  to  continue  with mass  and  energy  analysis to  control  volumes,  okay? So  after  today,  you should  be  able  to  start  solving some  of  these  energy  balance  problems for  steady  flow  devices. So  the  problems  basically  in Homework  five  there,  okay? Um  Last  lecture,  we  derived  flow  work,  right? We  talk  about  flow  work  there, just  to  remind  you  what  that  was,  right? Imagine  we  have  a  control  volume, defined  here  by  the  dashed  red  line. Let's  say  we  have  a  single  inlet  and  we have  a  single  outlet  there. At  this  inlet,  let's say  we  have  some  specific  volume, a  pressure,  And  we  can  imagine  then  a fictitious  or  an  imaginary  piston,  okay? So  we  kind  of,  like, push  push  this  in  some  amount. That  is  an  area  and  a  move a  distance,  that's  displacement,  right? And  if  there's  a  pressure  there, there's  a  work  associated  with  that,  okay? What's  the  take  home  message? The  take  home  message  is that  sometimes  it  requires work  to  bring  a  fluid  into  a  device,  right? Or  alternatively,  maybe  there's  work transferred  out  from  it,  right? And  if  we  do  our  kind  of traditional  energy  analysis  where we  just  talk  about  W, that  total  W  is  going  to have  that  in  it,  all  right? And  so  what  we  did  is  we  took  out the  flow  work  from  the  total  work, and  we  got,  you  know, useful  work  and  flow  work, and  we  basically  merged  that  flow  work with  internal  energy  to form  what  property?  Phenthropy. Yes.  I  can  go  home. I  don't  need  to  be  here  today.  Cool. Yes,  so  we  had  this,  right? And  so  what  was  the  way  that these  fluids  could  carry  in  energy,  right? Right?  It  can  possess  internal  energy, it  can  possess  kinetic  energy, and  it  can  possess  potential  energy, um,  there,  okay? And  we  write  that  as  like little  E.  Just  to  remind  you, this,  you  know,  beautiful  equation,  right? The  conservation  of  energy  written  in rate  format  where  we work  with  specific  enthalpy,  right? So  we  can  write  the  rate  of  change  of energy  in  the  control  volume  is  the  net  heat transferred  in  minus the  net  useful  work  transferred  out. M  dot,  right  in the  enthalpy  kinetic  energy  potential, that's  in  and  then  basically  out,  right? But  the  point  is  that  because  we  have enthalpy  internal  energy  plus pressure  times  specific  volume, this  is  the  useful. On  the  other  hand,  in  this  summation, you  go  with  internal  energy, this  is  going  to  be  overall  work. And  an  example  that  we  did  last  week, if  you  do  the  overall  work, you're  going  to  have  an  answer  that's  off by  about  like  20%  there,  okay? So  really  with  steady  flow  devices, so  when  you  can  bring  mass  in  and  out of  the  device,  you  know, we're  going  to  be  working with  enthalpy  only  with enthalpy  changes  to  figure  out  if heats  transferred  is  work transferred  and  so  on  and  so  forth,  right? Okay,  and  that's  what  we'll  work on  today.  I'll  show  that  to  you. Um,  Yes,  right? And  so  when  we  talk  about  steady, so  when  we  talk  about steady  in  these  processes, steady  didn't  mean,  you  know, so  when  I  talked  about  steady  here, we  were  saying,  I  have  some  control  volume. The  change  in  the  mass  in the  control  volume  as  a  function of  time  was  equal  to  m.in, you  know,  minus,  you  know, M  dot  out,  right? This  is  dm  in  dt  minus  dm  out.  Right,  dt. And  when  we  talked  about  steady, we  don't  mean  that all  of  these  terms  are  zero. What  we  mean  is  that this  term  goes  to  zero,  right? So  what  does  this  imply? DM  in  dt  is  equal  to  dm  out  dt,  right? So  I  don't  know, the  amount  of  mass  then  in the  control  volume  does  not  change. It's  constant.  And  the  same  applies then  for  conservation  of  energy. So  our  conservation  of energy  would  then  be  the  rate  of change  of  energy  in the  control  volume,  right? Dt  is  equal  to  e.in  minus  E  dot  out. When  it's  steady,  right, this  is  zero,  right? And  so  then  basically  D  E  in dt  is  equal  to  d  out  DT,  okay? And  I  think  all the  examples  I'm  going  to  work on  for  the  next  couple of  lectures  are  going  to  be  for  this. I'll  have  one  example  where  I  can  show you  a  process  that's  unsteady, and  actually, it's  a  problem  from  some  of  the research  that  we  do,  okay? This  case  here  is  one  inlet  in, one  inlet  outlet  or  one  inlet  and  one  outlet. But  you  can  also  have  cases  where  you  have one  inlet  and  two  outlets  here,  right? One  example  of  that  is, Sometimes  you  want  to  separate  like  a  stream. You  can  have  a  stream that's  like  a  mixture  of, like,  liquid  and  vapor. Something  like  this  could  be  a  separator. Only  vapor  goes  through  and  then  liquid, you  know,  comes  out  the  bottom,  right? So  that's  a  common  thing. But  the  point  is  that it's  still  conserved,  right? I  could  say,  you  know,  that's still  satisfied  in  the  sense  of, right,  the  m.in  is  equal  to  the  M  dot  out. It's  just  that  M  dot  two  plus  M dot  three  is  going  to  be  equal  to M  dot  one  there,  okay? Questions?  This  is  all  very  clear. Cool.  All  right. I  forgot  my  water  today,  so  devastating. Alright.  So  examples  of  some  devices,  right? So  turbines,  basically  how  we  still produce  most  of  our  power,  propulsion. So  you  think  about  nozzles, heat  exchangers,  you  know, compressors,  and  so  on  and  so  forth. These  are  all  steady  flow, right,  steady  flow  devices,  okay? Just  for some  terminologies,  for  some  notation. So  when  we  were  where  to  begin  with  this? Um,  Right? So  when  we  were  talking  about  our, you  know,  conservation  of  energy,  right? So  if  we  think  about  like  our  piston, it's  instructive  I  think to  think  about  the  piston  here. So  the  mass  in  this  case, right,  with  the  piston  was  equal  to a  constant.  So  that  didn't  vary. The  way  that  we  wrote the  energy  equation  here, right,  was  Delta  E, CV  is  equal  to  E  in  minus  E  out. The  way  that  energy  can  change  here  is we  can  have  Delta  U  plus Delta  E  plus  Delta  P,  right? And  then  this  is equal  to  the  ways  that  we  can transfer  energy  in  and  out,  right? So  this  could  be  Q  in  plus  W  in minus  Q  out  plus  W  out,  right? Okay.  I'll  put  this  to  the  side. Now,  what  side  should  I  put  this  to? All  right.  Maybe  I'll put  this  here  and  bring  this  back. Oh,  okay. So  in  the  case  of  the, um,  you  know,  energy  transport  by  mass, so  we  can,  you  know,  again,  write, uh,  we  have two  conservation  equations  now,  right? So  dm  CV  dt  is  equal to  what  I  would  call.in  minus  m  dot  out, and  then  we  have  our  energy,  right? So  d  CV  dt  is  equal  to e.in  minus  E  dot  out.  All  right. Um,  Let's  focus  on the  right  hand  side  for  a  second. So  we  think  about the  way  that  we  can  bring  it  in,  right? We  still  have  our  Q  in. We  call  it  Q  dot  because  it's  a  rate,  right? We  can  still  have  w.in. And  now  we  have  the  flow,  right? So  here  on  this  side, we  only  had  heat  and  work, but  now  we  can  bring in  energy  associated  with  flow. And  then  that's  going  to  be  let's  call it  dot  I  or.in. And  that'll  be  times, the,  uh,  you  know, U  plus  PV,  right, plus  velocity  squared  divided by  two  plus  GZ,  right? And  then  this  is  all  applying to  the  in  case,  right? And  then  plus  a negative  associated  with  the  out,  right? So  Q  dot  out  plus  w  dot  out, plus  dot,  what  should  we  call  it  here? We  can  call  it  M  dot  O  for  out, U  plus  PV  plus  W squared  divided  by  two  plus  G  Z. And  again,  we  can  call  this  as like  an  out  term. So  it's  instructive  to  basically compare  the  right  hand  sides  that  you  have here  with  the  heat  in  the work  with  here  where  you have  the  rate  versions of  heat  and  work  transfer, and  then  plus  the  flow  work  term,  okay? Because  I  have  the  PV  written  here, what  does  this  mean  about  the  work  terms? Go  ahead,  okay. Second.  Do  you  want  something  else? That's  the  question  I  asked. GZ,  what  do  you  think  GZ  is  G  is  what? Not  a  wrapper.  Okay.  So  it's gravity  and  then  what's  Z?  Or  Z. Yeah,  height. So  basically  it's  potential  energy? It's  potential  energy. W  right  here  I'm  writing  is  velocity, it's  kinetic  energy as  we  derived  it  last  time. PV  pressure  is  pressure  via specific  volume  and  U  is  internal  energy. So  what  type  of work  is  this  then  for  a  steady  flow  device? I  think  I  heard  it,  right,  hallucinated. Shaft  Shaft  work, right?  This  is  useful  work  here. And  it's  a  useful  work  term,  right? And  this  U  plus  PV, right  is  then  internal  energy,  okay? And  the  point  is,  if  you  read  the  book  and you  look  at  it,  this  U,  right? So  basically, maybe  I'll  do  the  top  one  like  this. Now  I  can  do  it  with  red.  All  right. So  if  you  see  it  in  the  book,  right, you're  going  to  see,  um, But  essentially, this  term  that  I've  highlighted here  is  what  they  define  as  being  little  E, right?  Little  E,  okay? So  it's  like  internal  energy,  kinetic  energy, potential  energy  on  a  per  mass  basis,  right? That's  essentially  what  the little  literally  is. If  you  add  to  this  also  the  PV  term,  right? So  again,  maybe  I'll  take  the  Oca  here, then  this  is  going  to  be  equal  to  what  they write  as  Theta,  right? So  Theta  is  then  little  E  plus  PV,  okay? Again,  this  is  just  to  make  life  easier  in terms  of  the  math because  it  can  get  exhausting. Um,  You  know,  it  can  get  exhausting  to write  that  a  bunch  of  times,  okay? And  then  on  the  left  hand  side, you  can  still  have  the  same  things,  right? So  you  can  have,  you  know, you  can  still  have  internal  energy, the  kinetic  energy  and  the  potential  energy that's  that's  stored  there. And  we'll  get  into  this  analysis  next  week. So  we'll  get  into  how  to deal  with  the  unsteady  case  on  Monday,  okay? Informational. Okay.  Yeah,  so  the  second  important  thing, there  was  a  student  who  had  raised  this to  me  before  that  you  can  have  cases,  right? So  when  we  did,  maybe  it's instructive  to  come  back  to  here. So  how  do  we  write  the  work  term  here? So  when  we  talk  about  boundary  work  term, what's  the,  let  me write  it  another  way,  I  can  write  basically. So  when  we  talk  about  boundary  work, how  do  we  write  it  for  like  a piston  expansion  or  compression? PDV,  right? So  you  have  PDV  like  that,  right? Okay.  In  these  processes, so  you  think  like  a  turbine. A  turbine  produces  a  ton  of  work, but  it  doesn't  change  volume. It  doesn't  change  volume.  Okay? How  would  you  write  that  work  term? Okay,  let's  think,  like,  to  the  basics. So  what  makes  a  fan  blow? Never  had  one  of  those  as  a  kid, like  the  spinning  wheel? What  do  they  call  those? The  Oh,  my  God,  my  brain  today. Pin  wheel  things,  right?  You  blow. Okay?  So  what  does  that  mean? Tanential  but  simpler. I'm  a  kindergartener,  you  know? Yes.  Okay.  And  then  a  fluid, how  do  we  call those  constant  kinds  of  forces? A  steady  flow  or  a  pressure,  right? Basically,  I  have  a  higher  pressure in  front  of  it  than  I  do  behind  it. So  I  have  a  Delta  P.  And I'm  telling  you  that the  volume  doesn't  change. So  how  would  you  write  work  in  that  case? It's  dimensionally  the  same,  guys. It's  Friday,  so I'll  give  it  to  you,  all  right? But  you  can  get  into,  right? You  can  have  basically  a  V  and  a  DP,  right? So  if  I  keep  that,  you  know, if  I  basically  have  the  specific volume  that  I  know, and  it's  a  constant  volume  there, it's  steady  flow,  so  the  mass  doesn't  change. So  the  volume  is  constant. The  mass  doesn't  change. Specific  volume  is  the  same,  right? So  that  means  that's  a  constant. I  right? And  so  write  this  little  W just  to,  you  know,  keep  it  like  that. Basically,  it's  a  VDP. You  end  up  basically  with  a  VDP. So  it's  PDV  when  it's  expansion. And  then  when  it's  a  device  like,  you  know, our  pinwheel  there,  you'll  end  up  with  a  VDP. I  think  I  saw  a  hand  raised  on  this  side. Yes,  please. Yeah,  so  energy,  unfortunately,  is  confusing. Feinman,  when  he  used  to  teach, said,  like,  entropy  was  easy. You're  going  to  learn  entropy. Not  today,  okay? But  energy  was  hard  because there's  all  kinds  of  forms  of  it,  right? So  what  you  need  to  do  is  you  need  to start  to  classify,  right,  in  your  mind. So  this  is  a  boundary  work,  right? It's  an  expansion  process. You  can  call  it  whatever  you  want. Feinman  was  also  a  fan  of  that. Have  it  this  name  and  that  name  and that  it  doesn't  matter,  right? This  ps  and  expanding is  going  to  be  a  PDV  term, okay?  We  had  other  kinds  of  work. What's  another  way  that  we  had  work  transfer? Remember  this?  Electrical,  right? We  have  electrons  that  can  flow in  and  transfer  work  into  the  system,  right? I  have  a  voltage  and  I  have  a  current. The  electrons  flow  in. They  kind  of  heat  up  that  resistor  there, and  that  energy  is transferred  into  the  control  volume. That's  electrical  work,  right? So  you  have  kind  of  a  W  electrical  there, okay? We  had  flow  work,  you  know,  right? So  when  we  had  this  open  system  and  we tried  to  bring  the  fluid in,  it  was  kind  of  flow  work. It  resembles,  in  a  sense, something  like,  um,  PDV  here. Actually,  it  was  the  same,  right?  It's  a  PDV. It's  just  that  in  this  case, there's  no  real  piston. It's  just  like  this  is  the  work necessary  to  actually  bring you  into  the  system,  okay? So  that  was  a  flow  you know,  a  flow  work  term. And  then  the  final  one  that we've  talked  about  so  far, I  believe,  is  then  shaft  work,  okay? So  I  would  say  boundary,  electrical,  flow, and  shaft  work  are probably  most  of  the  forms of  work  that  we'll  deal  with  in  this  class. It's  a  good  question.  Other  questions? Building  on  these. Now,  just  the  front  row  today. Cool.  All  right.  Yeah,  so you  can  produce  work,  right? Remember  before  when  we  had  this  case  and  it was  kept  at  constant  volume,  right? No  work  transfer  possible  here. However,  when  you  if  you allow  a  fluid  to  flow  in,  all  right? Again,  just  like  your  pinwheel  example, if  you  allow  a  fluid  to  flow  in, you  can  keep  your  system  at constant  volume  and  produce  work,  all  right? And  that  has  to  do  with  the  fact that  there's  a  pressure  difference,  right? Basically,  that  pressure  difference across  the  device  that's  making  it  spin. No  different  than  a  wind  turbine and  that,  okay? Yes,  blah,  blah,  blah. Yeah.  And  again,  in  order to  make  this  the  shaft  work, right,  we  need  to  separate out  the  flow  work,  right? Basically,  we  got  to  take  PV, you  know,  out  of  out  of  the  work  term, bring  it  here,  and  then  write  it essentially  in  this  format,  all  right? Cool.  So  with  that, I'm  going  to  now  actually  do  some  examples because  I  feel  like it's  a  lot  of  math  and  talking. So  I  want  to  go  through and  analyze  this  problem. And  then  once  we've  done  that,  I  want to  throw  it  to  you  guys  to go  through  and  try  to  clarify any  misunderstandings  we  have,  all  right? Great.  Have  you  been recording?  Yeah,  I  have  been. All  right.  I'm  probably going  to  regret  erasing  that. Sorry.  All  right.  That  do. This  can  go  here.  This  can  go  here. All  right, so  what  do  we  have  in  this  example? In  this  example,  we're  looking at  analyzing  a  compressor. Okay.  So  how  does  the  compressor  work? Compressor  works  by taking  we  have  shaft  works. We  have,  like,  a  motor  that's  spinning, and  it  draws  air  in  or  a  gas  in  that's at  a  higher  a  specific  volume and  compresses  it,  right? So  expectations  out  of this  device  is  that  at  the  end  of  this, the  pressure  will  be  basically the  pressure  will  be  higher.  That's  the  goal. It's  basically  the  goal  of your  of  your  compressor.  Okay? Great. And  for  those  who  want  to  follow  on,  we  can, what  I'm  going  to  assume  is  that  we  have ideal  gas  properties  of  air, and  here  we're  going  to  neglect kinetic  and  potential  energy  changes. As  I  mentioned  before,  there  will  be devices  when  we  start  to  care  about  this. The  one  that's  most important  is  the  nozzle,  right? The  nozzle  that  I  mentioned  before,  okay? So  like  anything  else,  at  this  point, I'm  just  going  to  do  things  with,  like, painfully  detailed and  show  you  my  assumptions, and  as  time  goes  on, I'll  skip  through  those,  right? So  we  have  two  conservation  equations. So  the  first  is our  conservation  of  mass,  right? So  DM,  CV,  dt or  the  control  volume  is drawn  here  with  our  dashed  red  line. Is  equal  to  m.in  minus  m  dot  out. We're  going  to  assume  steady, so  we're  going  to assume  steady  operating  conditions. So  what  this  implies  is  that dot  N  is  equal  to  m  dot  out, which  I'm  usually  just  going  to  write as  dot,  okay,  dot. Now  conservation  of  energy,  right, DE  CV  dt  so  the  change  in  the  energy  in the  control  volume  is  equal  to e.in  minus  E  dot  out. Again,  we're  going  to assume  steady  conditions. So  e.in  is  equal  to  e  dot  out,  right? We  can  we  can separate  this  into  its  different  components. So  for  the  e.in,  right, I  can  have  w.in  plus  q.in  plus  dot,  right? So  it  will  be  m.in, but  I'm  just  writing  it  as  M  dot. I'm  going  to  write  then  H  one. So  we're  state  one. State  one  is  defined  here. So  I'm  defining  this  enthalpy at  state  one  here. Plus  velocity  one  squared divided  by  two  plus  G  Z  one, where  G  is  the  acceleration constant  due  to  gravity, and  Z  one  is  then  position,  okay? And  then  this  is  equal to  exactly  the  same  thing here  that  I'm  going  to  write  except it's  going  to  be  out  and  the  number  two. So  then  what  I  have  here  is  W  dot out  plus  Q  dot  out  plus  M dot  times  H  two  plus W  two  squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  two. What  can  we  get  rid  of? Name?  Arturo.  So  Connecticut and  Potential  are  out. What  else  on  this  side  of  the  room? You  have  a  brave  soul  in  the  back  there? No.  Okay.  Yes,  please,  Maya? Qn. Q.  Yeah,  because  we  don't  have  a  Q  in, so  Qn  is  out. What  else? K  workout,  workout  is  also  not  there. Work  in  has  to remain  because  that's  the  whole  point,  right? We  have  some  work  we're  transferring  in, and  that's  ultimately  what we  want  to  determine. The  dot  is  a  given. H  one  will  determine  from  properties. Q  dot  out  on  a  per  mass  basis  is  given, so  I  can  redefine  that. The  Q  dot  out  here is  let  me  think  about  this. So  Q  dot  out  is equal  to  m  dot  times  little  Q  out. This  is  like  a  definition,  Q  out here  is  kilojoules  per  kilogram, mass  fluorid  is  kilogram  per  second. So  I  multiply  those together  kilowatts,  right? So  what  this  means  is  that  we  can just  write  we  can substitute  into  this  term  dot  times  Q  out. So  both  of  those  things  are  known. The  dot  is  known, and  the  tube  will  know from  from  properties,  okay? Cool.  So  we  can  simplify  this. Let  me  just  simplify  it.  So  what  do  we  have? We  have  w.in,  is  equal  to  our  M  dot  Q  out. What's  on  our  left  hand  side, two  plus  dot  times  that's  H  two,  right? And  then  this  will  be  subtracted  by  one. And  why  does  this  make  sense,  right? Why  does  this  arrangement  make  sense? So  this  arrangement  makes  sense because  if  I  transfer  work  in  the  system, Uh,  I  would  expect,  and  again, because  I've  written  this  in  notation, this  is  going  to  be  a  positive  value,  right? This  is  positive  values. My  expectation  is  that  the  enthalpy at  the  exit  will be  higher  than  the  inlet,  right? Because  I'm  putting  work  in. If  I'm  going  to  put  energy  in, I  would  expect  that  the  thing that  also  means  kind  of  energy, you  know,  should  basically be  larger  than  that. If  this  wasn't  the  case,  if  it  was  less, then  this  would  end  up  if we  forgot  that  for  a  second, if  this  was  less  than  H  one, then  the  work  in  would  be negative,  which  means  what? Work  out,  right?  Okay. Because  remember,  when  I  write  ins  and  outs, I'm  not  doing  anything  with  signs,  right? So  if  I  write  in,  I'm  going  to stick  with  the  magnitude for  that  term,  all  right? Super.  All  right. So  let's  see  how  I  did  it  in my  um  Notes  here  that  I  do. Yeah.  Okay,  so  for  H  two  and  H  one, we  can  do  this  two  different  ways  to  start. So  for  H  two, let's  focus  on  this  for  a  second, because  we  need  to know  this  is  a  question  mark, and  this  is  a  question  mark,  this  we  got, this  we  got,  this  we  got,  okay? So  for  H  two,  all  right, we  can  focus  on  State  two. So  at  state  two,  we  know  that  P two  is  equal  to  600. KPa,  and  we  know  that  T  two  is equal  to  500  Kelvin,  right. What  this  means  is  if  you  went  to property  tables  or  Pi Kilo  or  whatever  and  did  it, you  have  complete  information  here,  right? So  you'll  be  able  to  determine  H  two, V  two,  V  two,  right? Like, all  these  things  you  could  know  from  this. We  care  at  the  moment  about  H  two. The  same  for  state  one,  okay? For  state  one,  P  one  is  equal  to  100  kPa. All  right.  And  T  one  is  equal  to  290  kelvin. It's  the  same  thing,  right? You'll  be  able  to  know  H  one, U  one,  and  V  one  from  that. For  the  purposes  of  this  problem, we  only  care  about  H  one,  okay? Great.  Yeah,  so  if you  go  in  and  you  substitute values  for  these  things, so  we  know,  right, the  M  dot  So  the  M  dot  there, we  have  a  0.02  kilogram/second. The  Q  out,  we  have  as one  kilojoule  per  kilogram. If  you  substitute  in, you  know,  you  click  on the  notebook  and  go  through, but  substitute  in  the  values  from  H one  and  H  two,  that  you'd  have. What  I  end  up  with  as  my  w.in  in watts  is  4278  watts, which  is  equal  to  4.278  kilowatts,  okay? So  this  is  one  way  to  do  it,  alright? Maybe  I  will  move  it  to  this. What's  the  best  thing  to  do? No,  I'll  keep  this  here, and  I'll  move  to  the  left  hand  side. What's  another  way  that  we  could  do this  that  might  seem  easier? I  mean,  I  think  this  is  pretty  easy. I  like  this. But  what's  another  way  that  I  taught you  changes  an  enthalpy  for  an  ideal  gas? Okay. So  if  I  transfer heat  into  something,  what  changes? The  temperature.  Okay?  All  right? When  we  did  a  closed  system at  constant  volume, and  I  transferred  some  heat into  that,  what  was  that  equal  to? So  constant  volume,  closed  system. Okay,  right?  So  we  had  Q  is CV,  Delta  T,  right? So  Q  is  CV  Delta  T,  right? What  I  showed  you  is  because  this  is isochoric  for  a  closed  system, there's  no  boundary  work,  right? And  from  the  first  law,  if I  don't  have  any  work  transfer, d  is  going  to  be  equal  to  Q,  right? So  then  what  we  could  say,  right, was  that  CV  was  equal  to,  um, right,  d,  Oh,  sorry. Yeah,  basically  du  dt for  constant  V.  The  point  was that  changes  in  temperature  times  CV would  give  you  changes  in  internal  energy. All  right?  Does  anyone  remember an  analogous  formula  for  enthalpy? Louder. Name  high,  and  high,  and  then  a  name. Yes,  please.  Name?  A  Yes. Or  constant  pressure. And  that's  it,  right?  So  changes in  enthalpy  can  be related  to  changes  in temperature  by  CP,  okay? All  right. And  then  for  an  ideal  gas,  right, the  internal  energy  only depends  on  temperature. So  the  point  is  that  for  a  problem  like  this, what  you  could  do  is  we  could  write  H two  minus  H  one  as  being  equal to  Cp  times  T  two  minus  T  one,  right? It's  possible,  okay? So  this  is  another  way  to  do  it. It's  less  precise  than looking  up  right  exact properties  in  this  way. But  over  the  temperature  range that  we  have  here, so  290  to  500, probably  taking  a  value  of  specific  heat  at room  temperature  and  multiplying it  by  the  Delta  T  would  get  you  within, like,  you  know,  a  couple  of percent  of  the  answer,  okay? Yes.  And  this  is like  kind  of  the  old  school  way  of  doing  it. So  when  you  see  in  the  textbook, a  lot  of  the  stuff  that  was  done  before  with enthalpy  changes  of  ideal  gases are  usually  specific  heats times  temperature  differences. I  think  nowadays  with electronic  tables  and  stuff, these  approaches  like  this  are  just  as convenient  as  doing  that,  okay? Questions?  That  all  makes  sense. Cool. So,  since  you  have  no  questions, I'm  sure  this  will  be  a  walk  in  the  park. So  what  I'm  going  to  give  you  here, give  me  a  second  I'll  launch  it. But  in  short,  you're  given an  adiabatic  steam  turbine. What  does  adiabatic  mean? No.  No  heat.  No  heat  transfer,  right? So  it's  only  work  transfer. You're  prescribed  the  upstream  state, and  you  have  the  downstream  state. And  what  I  want  to  know  is  what's the  rate  of  work  transferred  out? We'll  continue  with  this  then  on  Monday. I  hope  you  have  a  great  weekend.  Thank  you.
