Here's  what  don't  want  to  do  now. We're  going  to  apply  this. So  here  is  your  caro  cycle, again,  shown  you  here. So  we  have  this  cyclical  process, the  ABCD,  with the  high  temperature  being  T  one, the  low  temperature  being  T  two, and  the  high  entropy  is  S  two, and  the  low  trops  being  S  one. There's  a  series  of  questions, where  you'll  go  through an  answer  about  what  each  of these  sort  of  steps  are  and  formulas  to  do. So  I  say  take  5  minutes  here. I  have  1034.  Let's  say  at  10:40. We'll  come  back  together  in  plenary. Are  there  any  questions  about this  activity  before  we  get  started? Let's  go.  We  look  here. We  now  start  with  A  to  B. The  transformation,  so  the  majority is  in  for  isothermal. The  reason  being  that  here  A  to B  is  a  constant  temperature  process, that  is  by  definition  isothermal  there. Questions  about  the  adiabatic, we  can  discuss  it. But  that's  going  to  be, I  think,  taken  home  here. So  in  the  B  to  C.  So  with  this, we  have  a  process  that's  isotropic. There's  no  change  in  entropy. Entropy  is  constant.  Due  to  this  relation between  the  entropy  and  the  heat, you  can  infer  from  that  that that's  also  an  adiabatic  process. So  there  will  be no  heat  transfer  that  happens. To  here,  isochoric  is  constant  volume. Isobaric  is  constant  pressure. C  to  D,  again,  it's  the  inverse  of  A  to  B. That's  isothermal  and  constant  temperature. D  A  is  again, this  is  the  link between  the  NP  and  the  heat  transfers, that's  an  atiobatic  process. These  are  heat  in  heat  out, and  then  that's  your  various  work  that's done  on  the  system  or  transferred  out  of  it. Okay.  So  what's  the  change  in  entropy  during the  transformation  to  A  to  B? So  the  first  thing  to  note  is  that  we're dealing  with  the  reservoir here  at  temperature  one, and  then  this  is  going  to  be  heat transferred  into  the  system,  right? So  we  have  S  two  or  SB  minus  S  A, that's  going  to  be  a  positive  quantity here  because  that's  bigger than  um,  then  that. That's  at  the  T  one,  so  that's  there  and the  Q  one  is  how  we  write  it. Of  course,  here  you'd have  the  right  magnitude, but  you'd  end  up  having  the  wrong  sign. If  you  calculated  this minus  this,  that's  positive, and  so  the  integral  of  that  dQ  t  for the  constant  temperature  then should  be  Q  divided by  t  one  and  not  dealing  with  the  t  two. C  to  D. If  we  are  B  to  C,  if  we  go  from B  to  C,  what's  the  change  in  entropy. That's  again,  what  you said  before  isentropic, very  good,  so  that  should  be  a  zero. Continue  along  C  to  D.  With  C  to  D  here, now  we're  taking  heat  out  of  the  system. Again,  in  the  power  plant, this  is  like  our  cooling. We're  sending  this  to  the  cooling  tower. Um,  and  all  of  this  is  the  low  grade  heat. That's  at  the  temperature  two, your  reservoirs  at  temperature  two, isothermal, so  you'd  be  able  to  integrate  that. It's  reversible,  so  the  D  Q  just  becomes  Q. That's  the  Q  divided  by  t  two. The  key  thing  to  note  is  that the  entropy  after  this  process minus  the  entro  before is  going  to  be  negative. So  the signage  here, you  have  to  be  consistent  with  it, but  this  would  be  Q two  according  to  the  convention  we  have, this  would  be  minus  q  divided  by  t  two  there. All  right. So  one  may  make  arguments  for  this, but  again,  you  have  to  be  consistent  with your  signage  from  your  previous  answer. Then  from  D  to  A,  here,  this  is  again, an  isentropic  process,  which  is  adiabatic, then  that  should  be  zero  there. What  is  the  net  change  in entropy  in  the  cycle? For  those  who  have  put  this  here, who  have  wrote  out  the  word zero.  Why  is  it  zero? Yeah,  that's  exactly  that's  well  stated. Again,  better  than  I  said  it. So  hey,  they  even  wrote  it. Great.  That's  it.  So  that's  the  u That's  the  point  of that  is  that  if  you  start, then  you  stop  at  at  the  same  point  there, then  the  entropy  will  be  the  same. Of  course,  when  we're  dealing with  heat transferred  in  and  he  transferred  out, those  are  not  necessarily  the  same. Actually,  in  this  case,  it's  not. The  net  heat  transfer  in, which  would  be  the difference  between  the  area under  the  top  curve  and the  area  under  the  bottom  curve, we'd  have  a  net  heat  transfer  in. For  di  closed  volumes we're  dealing  with  here, that's  going  to  be  equal  to  the  workout. If  we  just  simply focus  on  the  entropy,  though, as  your  classmate  said, it's  going  to  be  zero.  All  right. We'll  have  more  chances  to  work through  this  and  probably  nice  problems to  ask  from  other  students  who  proposed. Okay. Are  there  any  questions about  that  before  we  move  on? Yes,  please.  Statement  Q one  minus  Q  two  equals  zero.  Is? I'm  not  saying  it's  not  wrong. Let's  think  about  it. Here,  you  have  a  Q, which  is  this  a  big  number  or  a  small  number relative  to  Q  two? Yeah.  It's  big.  What  about  T  one? Is  T  one,  a  big  number  or a  small  number  relative  to  two? Big. I  got  a  big  number  divided  by  a  big  number. Now  I  have  two  divided  by  T  two. What  is  big  number or  a  small  number  relative? Smaller,  right?  And  what  about  T  two? Smaller? So  I  got  a  small  number divided  by  small  number. Big  divided  by  big minus  small  divided  by  small, I  might  follow  that  that  ends up  being  also  zero. So  it's  not  wrong.  I  didn't  say that  was  wrong,  did  I? No.  So  Yeah. But,  maybe  that's  worthwhile, also  an  example  in  the  homework  to  give  that. Okay.  Other  questions  about  this? Yes,  please.  Wait  a  second. This  is  temperature  and  entropy,  right? Yeah.  So  C  arno  last  week, did  we  do  we did  something  with  pressure,  right? We  did  do  apply  with  the  PV,  yeah. This  is  a  representation of  what  I  showed  you  with those  atiobatic  and  isothermal  processes  in the  PV  diagram  now represented  on  the  TS  diagram. Yes.  And  hopefully  you see  the  convenience  of  it because  it's  like  a  square. And  these  are  really  easy  to  integrate. Other  questions?  Yes,  please,  Thomas. Say  that  again.  Isomorphic. Describe  isomorphic  to  me. I  mean,  one  to  one  mapping. There's  formulas  that  can draw  you  between  them. Topologically  the  same,  right? So  I'd  have  to  think  about  it. That's  a  good  question,  though. Again,  a,  maybe  that's a  nasty  question  to  ask.  Other  questions. All  right,  let's  talk  about  an  office  hours, Thomas.  Exactly. Now  again,  as  was explicitly  alluded  to  by  the  classmate  there, the  heat  absorbed  by  the  system,  again, that  the  shaded  area that  would  be  within  here  is  the  Q, which  is  equal  to  Q  one  minus  Q. Heat  transferred  from  the  high temperature  and heat  transferred  out  by the  low  temperature  gives  you  the  Q. Since  the  work  done  on  one  of these  closed  volume  cycles is  equal  to  the  heat  and  is equal  to  work  out.  Well  we  can  write. Is  that  work  is then  equal  to  this  shaded  area. That's  going  to  be  s2s1, the  rectangle,  one  length  is S  two  minus  S  one, the  other  length  is  t  one  minus  t  two. That  gives  you  the  work  there. If  you  recall  for  the  isothermal  process, remember  we  integrated  that  d  Q  divided  by  t, the  t  is  isothermal, so  that  doesn't  change  with  the  integral. The  little  d  and  dQ  can  be  written as  a  definite  differential. Then  we  get  Q  one  is  equal  to  t one  times  the  change  in the  entropy  from  state  two  to  state  one. Um  if  we  now  take  the  work  transferred  out, divided  by  the  heat  transferred in  from  that  high  temperature  reservoir. This  is  efficiency,  okay? Why?  Because  that  heat  that  we  put in  is  like  the  stuff  that  we  pay  for, right  at  the  moment  you  pay  for fuel  that  you  burn, that  makes  that  heat  that  runs your  power  plant  that  makes your  shaft  work  there. So  that's  what  you  get  out. That's  what  you  put  in. If  we  write  that,  again, for  this  if  the  heat  is  transferred in  isothermally,  then  we  can  write  that. This  cancels,  and  what  you  have  here is  one  minus  the  ratio  of the  low  temperature  reservoir  divided  by the  high  temperature  reservoir  is the  efficiency  of  a  carno  cycle. What's  weird  about  this  equation?  Okay. That's  excellent  insight.  If  you have  a  high  temperature  reservoir, you  will  have  a  more  efficient  system. If  your  lower temperature  reservoir  is  colder, you  will  also  have  a  more  efficient  system. So  it's  on  the  absolute  scale. Remember  on  the  absolute  scale. What's  the  other  thing  that's  kind of  weird  about  this  equation? Thomas.  Say  that  again. It's  only  temperature  dependent. Like,  I  didn't  say  anything  about  a  fluid. I  didn't  even  say  really  much about  how  this  system  would  work  like. We  did  all  of  this  math. There  was all  this  complex  stuff  on  the  board, and  we  got  to  there, and  then  in  the  end,  that's  your  formula. Okay?  So  in  a  carno  cycle,  so  again, this  idealized,  reversible  cycle, there  in  the  end, it's  only  the  temperature  of  the  reservoirs that  determine  the  efficiency  of  the  system, which  is  also  kind  of  interesting. So  Okay. So  I'm  not  going  to  read  it, but  this  is  carnos  theorem. So  as  we  stated  it, as  Thomas  just  said  there. So,  you  know,  that's  the  theorem, so  it  doesn't  depend on  the  working  substance. It's  only  dependent. The  efficiency  is  only  dependent  on the  two  operating  temperatures. So  with  that,  that's  these  first  two  points. What  I'd  like  to  do  now with  the  last  6  minutes is  to  at  least  start  giving  you the  knowledge  base  to  answer the  question  from  your  classmate  there, which  is  to  establish  the  increase  of entropy  principle. So  I'm  just  going  to  give  you  a  statement. So  things  are  more  likely to  occur  in  an  isolated  system, if  the  change  in  entropy  there is  zero  or  if  the  changes  to  increase. So  we  talked  about  taking  these  two  things at  different  temperatures, putting  them  together,  to  analyze  then  if, those  things  are  going  to  come  to the  same  temperature  of  the  transformation. If  that's  what  we  hypothesize  to  happen, then  this  statement  would  have to  be  true,  okay? And  this  inequality  holds,  not  the  equals, the  inequality  holds  if the  isolated  system  is not  initially  at  equilibrium. So  I  initially,  like  in  the  example  there, we  have  two  things  with different  temperatures, we  suddenly  bring  them  together. They  are  not  in  equilibrium, they  will  tend  towards  equilibrium  there. So  then  the  most probable  processes  that  might  occur  in an  isolated  system  are  those  in  which the  entropy  increases  remain  constant. I  could  derive  this  for  you,  okay? But  for  that,  we  need  statistical  mechanics. There's  a  great  video  on  MIT, Professor  Leinhardt  who  sort  of  goes  into  it. I  thought  what  might  be  more instructive  is  to  come back  to  this  video  that  we  had  before. So  in  the  video  we  had  before, we  did  this  experiment  with  heat  transfer. We  had  one  reservoir  with particles  at  a  lower  temperature, another  one  of  them  that  was at  higher  temperatures, and  we  looked  at the  direction  that  things  moved. Right?  So  as  a  function  of  time, what  we  had  noticed  was that  the  things  that  were  at the  higher  temperature  tended  to diffuse  towards  the  things  at, you  know,  at  the  lower  temperature. So  there  was  a  net  heat  transfer  in  this  case that  I'm  showing  here  from,  you  know, right  to  right  to left.  The  question  I  want  to  ask  from  this. So  you're  watching  this  going  forward. One  way  to  think  about entropy  is  to  think,  Okay, what  if  I  saw  this  as  my  initial  state, and  I  tried  to  rewind.  You  see  this. What  is  the  probability? Experimentalist  doing? What's  the  probability  that  if you  waited  long  enough, that  these  things  would  spontaneously  go  back to  being  all  cold  and  all  hot? I  mean,  it's  not  zero, but  it's  in  an  engineering  sense,  it's  zero. It's  very,  very  unlikely,  ok? This  is  also  you  ever thought  about  why  time  has  a  direction? Entropy.  Why  the  universe is  going  to  end  entropy.  All  right. So  you  know, the  thing  is  that  it  can  decrease  though. So  if  I  take  a  system  that's  not  isolated. So  if  I  take  again,  maybe with  the  example  that  was  put  before. If  I  have  a  box,  I  can, of  course,  transfer  heat  out  of  that,  right? So  the  entropy  within  that  box  will  decrease. But  the  total  entropy for  all  the  systems  involved. So  I'm  transferring  out.  This  has  to be  transferred  somewhere es  into  the  environment. So  the  Delta  S  one  plus  the  Delta  S  two has  always  got  to  be equal  or  greater  than  zero. Okay.  So  the  importance of  the  second  law  is that  tells  you  what  things can  happen  will  occur,  right? And  You  know,  we  in  order  to  describe  that, the  first  law,  we  talked  about the  conservation  of  energy. There  are  processes,  like  I  said  before, this  unwinding  where  things  can  go  backwards. They  comply  with  the  conservation  of  energy. I  didn't  take  particles  out  and  all  that, but  they're  improbable  because they  violate  this  second  law. And  this  is  going  to  be important  for  you  going  forward  in your  engineering  education  is that  this  principle  of  increase  in  entropy, along  with  conservation  of  energy, mass  momentum. They  are  the  basic  rules that  govern  the  universe. So  this  is  actual  honest  to God  like  truth  that  you  are  seeing  today. When  you  get  into  fluid  mechanics, you're  going  to  be dealing  with  conservation  of mass  and  conservation  of  momentum. All  right? When  you  get  into  heat  transfer  there, you're  going  to  be dealing  with  conservation  of mass,  momentum,  and  energy. Right?  And  to  tell  you,  let's say  in  something  of  heat  transfer, if  things  going  to  move spontaneously  and  flow  from one  direction  to the  other,  that's  second  law. Things  move  from regions  of  high  concentration to  low  concentration,  right? Again,  when  you're  a  party  and talking  to  your  friends,  you  can  say  that. I'd  go  through  this.  I'm  out  of  time. I'll  just  leave  you  with  a  quote. Rod  of  Clausius, this  is  what  he  wrote  as the  first  and  second  laws  of  thermo. As  in  German,  the  first  is  at  the  energy, the  universe  is  constant, and  the  entropy  of  the  universe strives  towards  a  maximum. With  that,  you  have  the  increase  of
