All  right.  So  15  B? Last  one.  Chemical  reactions. That's  right.  So  we're  going  to  cover some  of  that  and  then  I'll,  you  know, give  you  a  little  bit  of  a  old  man  history of  thermo  to  check  out  the  last  one. So the  last  chemical  reaction  problem we're  going to  do  is  this  one  here essentially  steady  flow  reaction with  incomplete  combustion. So  here  I  have  the  the formula  that  we  have,  right? So  we  have  this  is  ethane, ethane  gas  that's  coming  in. 25  degrees  Celsius,  right? That's  the  reference  state. Right?  So  remember,  the  other  thing  is  that the  pressure  here,  right? So  our  pressure  pressure  is, you  know,  1  atmosphere  here  for  this  process. So  that  means  it's  a  it's reference  state  and  the  enthalpy. Right?  The  enthalpy  here, then  at  the  reference  state  is then  going  to  be  by  definition  in  the  H equals  to  H  t.  We  also  have air  coming  in  at  unknown  quantity, X,  so  I  put  x  for  that. That's  at  500  Kelvin. And  then,  the  carbon forms  carbon  dioxide  and  carbon  monoxide. We're  told  that  95% of  the  carbon  burns  to  CO  two. So  that's  going  to  help  us  with  the  Y. And  then  the  remaining  amount  forms carbon  monoxide. We're  told  that  all  the  hydrogen  in the  fuel  burns  to  become  h2o  there. And  then  the  final  part  is  we  have some  unknown  amount  of  nitrogen, which  is  going  to  pass  through. So  X  times  the  3.76 is  then  going  to  determine  the  C. Mic  the  C  for  us  for  us  there. Good.  So  for the  steady  flow  analysis of  the  heat  exchanger. So  in  the  way  that  this  is  drawn, we  have  a  Q  dot  out. So  if  we  wrote  our  formula. So  our  formula  then  would  be,  right, the  summation  of  the  number  of  moles  of the  reactant  times  the  enthalpy of  formation  of  that  compound. Plus  its  enthalpy  at  that  temperature,  right? So  in  this  case,  we  have  at  least  two of  them  that  are  not  at the  at  the  reference  states  of 500  Kelvin  and  at  800  Kelvin. So  we'll  use  that  information  for  that. And  then  that's  minus  the  enthalpy at  the  reference  state. So,  right?  The  point  is  that for  this  analysis  of  the  ethane, these  two  are  going  to  be  equal. And  then  this  term  is  going  to  drop  out, and  we  just  have  the  enthalpy information  for  at  least  for  that. Compound.  That's  the  reactants. And  then  that's  equal  to  our  Q  out. So  the  heat  that's  right that's  leaving,  and  then  that's  plus, then  the  summation  of the  number  of  moles  of  the  product  times similarly  the  enthalpy  of  formation  plus the  enthalp  minus  enthalpy at  the  reference  state. And  then  I  to  know  products  for  the  P  there. Okay?  You  could  rearrange,  right? So  we  could  put,  you  know, the  products  to  the  left  hand  side  and then  Essentially, we  could  switch  this  to the  right  hand  side  and  then Que  out  to  the  left  hand  side. And  so  if  we  write  that  for  this  problem, we  have  a  Q  out, which  is  equal  to  the  n  of  our  fuel. So  nc2h6  times  right enthalpy  of  formation  plus minus  n,  write  c2h6. This  is  then  plus  R  N  two. And  what  I'm  doing  here  is  I'm essentially  going  in  order  through, you  know,  left  or  right  through the  different  compounds. So  then  here  we  have  this  is  then  times  right the  ent  P  information  plus the  enthalp  minus  the  reference, and  that's  for  two. We  have  the  n  two,  n, n2f  plus  h  minus  h  naught. This  is  n  two,  we  have  a  plus  plus, and  then  I'm  going  to  go  with the  negative  here,  right. And  so  now  we're  going  to  get  into the  into  the  reactants,  right? So  essentially,  everything  we  had  here in  the  summation  was  the  reactants, and  now  we're  going  to  get  into the  products  here  writing. So  the  products  then are  on  the  right  hand  side. So  the  CO  two  CO  two  and  n two  there.  All  right? So  we  have  n  of  CO two  times  the  enthalpy  of formation  plus  minus  H  naught, CO  two  plus  n  CO, F  naught  plus  H  minus  H  naught  there, CO.  Plus  h2o,  F  naught  plus  minus  H naught  h2o  plus  n  n  two, F  naught  plus  minus  zero, and  that's  n  two,  right? And  then  close  the  bracket is  all  of  that  the  in  negative. Maybe  I'll  move  that  over. All  right.  So  now  we  need  to  figure out  basically, we  need  to  figure  out  the  moles,  right? And,  and  what's  common  here, in  this  case  is  to  look  at  the  stochiometric. So  here,  we  have  1  mole. We  have  1  mole  of  the  ethane that's  coming  in,  so  that's  good  to  know. But  we'll  analyze  on  the  basis  of hydrogen  carbon  oxygen  and  nitrogen. So  for  the  hydrogen  case, Hydrogen  on  the  left  hand  side. On  the  left  hand  side. Maybe  I'll  switch  the  order, so  I  don't  have  to  run  back  and  forth. This.  Right.  So  for  1  mole  of  ethane, I  have  I  have  six  hydrogens  on  the  reactant. And  then  this  then  essentially  needs  to be  multiplied  then  two  by  A,  right? So  two  A. And  then  this  basically means  right  A  is  equal to  to  three,  so  that's  good. So  A  is  Done. All  right.  A  there. Can  you  look  at  the  carbon? So  for  carbon.  All  right. So  we  have  here  two. So  we  have  two  carbon  on  the  left  hand  side. So  two  is  then  equal  two. I  have  a  y  here  with  one  and  a  z,  right? So  this  is  basically  going  to  be  y  Y  plus. You're  told  that. Here,  95%  of the  carbon  becomes  carbon  dioxide, and  the  remaining  is  CO. So  what  you  could  say  is  that for  that  summation  to  be  two,  right? You  would  deduce  that  y should  be  equal  to  two  times  0.95,  right? And  it's  95,  yes. And  then  z  would  be  equal  to 20.05,  right,  with  that. So  that  takes  care  I  think  this  takes  care of  our  y  and  z, so  Rockin  and  rolling. With  that,  the  last  one that  we  have  is  our  x. And  then  basically  once  we  have  the  x, we're  going  to  be  able  to  have  the C.  So  if  we  look  first, C,  C  is  from  nitrogen. All  right.  It's  a  nitrogen. You  have  x  times  two  times  3.76. Why  is  that,  right? Nitrogen  is  diatomic?  C  of  the  two. That's  by  the  376  and  x. And  then  that  must  be  equal  to  two  times c.  And  so  our last  the  last  one that  we  have  then  is  with  oxygen,  so  oxygen. All  right.  And  from  oxygen,  what  I  have  is, we're  starting  with  x  times, u  two,  save  two  x  on  the  left  hand  side, and  then  this  is  equal  to  two  y,  one,  z,  two, y  plus  z  plus  A,  right  plus  A. There,  I  have  A, I  have  y,  and  I  have  z. And  so  basically  from  this, you  would  you'd  be able  to  determine  that  I  have with  substitutions  here. I  believe  in  x  that  is  equal  to. So  what  is  it's  one  point  it's  essentially 1.92  plus  0.1  times  one. Right?  Because  that's  my  z plus  three.  All  right? Is  then  my  22x,  I  think. X  is  the  leading  term  on  02. So  if  I  look  at  N  of  02, N  of  02.  Yes,  please. Petro. In  the  last  lecture, there  was  oxygen  leftover on  the  product  site. Why  do  we  not  have  that? That's  a  very  fair  point. So  I  think  this  depends  on how  we  look  at  the  combustion  process  here. So  when  I  went  through  this  in  my  accounting, if  you  had  excess  oxygen  on  this  side, then  I  don't  have  enough  information to  work  with  here. So  essentially,  the  way  that  I  understood  it, I  would  basically  be  I  mean, it  could  be  available  there, but  I  think  in the  analysis  that  I  have  with  this, all  of  it  is  going  into  these  three, and  I  don't  have  anything  remaining. Yes,  please.  Go  ahead. You  heard  from  the  sketchers. Yes.  So  it  could  be. But  again,  in  the  solution  that  I  have, I  had  the  number,  but  the  number basically  was  a  zero  for  that. So  I  mean,  at  the  end  of  it, and  again,  I'm  open  to  suggestions, but  essentially  what  you'd have  here  at  the  end is  one  equation  with  two  unknowns  for  that. So  you'd  have  a  left  hand  side with  a  free  variable  on  x, and  you'd  have  another  one  on  the right  hand  side  that's  a  free  variable, and  both  of  these  things  could be  turned  up.  It. So  maybe  there  was  something  in the  answer  that  allowed  me  to better  specify  to  basically better  specify  on  it. But  yeah.  Okay.  But  a  very  good  point. Okay.  Alright,  anyway,  so  from  this, the  take  home  message  is  that  we  can  now  talk about  for  this  case,  the  moles. Alright?  So  again,  what  we're  interested  in is  this  formula  here  and  going  bit  by  bit. So  right  now,  we're  interested in  the  number  of moles  of  these  different  species. There,  as  I  said  before, so  the  number  of  moles  for  our  ethane, so  nc2h6, we  have  is  one  is basically  one  kilomole  there. So  when  we  have  one  kilomole  of  that, the  n  f  two  is  3.45.  Alright,  kilomole. The  n  for  the  n  two, and  this  is  all  reactants. So  maybe  able  to  note  with that  that  this  is  the  reactants. This  is  then  3.45  times  3.76  there,  right? Because  you  basic  have  the  x,  which  is  the 345  and  the  376, which  is  your  term  there. This  takes  care  of  the  reactants. So  we  talked  now  about  the  products. Maybe  I'll  just  call  these  reactants. All  right. And  then  for  our  products.  All  right. So  we  have  n  of  C  02, which  is  then  1.9. Kilomole.  The  n  for  the  CO  is  0.1  Kilo  mole. The  n  for  H  two  is  equal  to  three. Kilo  mole,  and  then  the  n  for  the  n two  is  equal  to  12.972. Kilomole,  right? And  those  are  going  to  basically be  the  same.  Right. So  let's  see.  That's  good. I  need  to  keep  it.  This  one  I also  need  to  keep. I'm  on  a  board. This  room's  not  good  for  that. Um  All  right. So  let's  do  the  following. I  can  move  probably  this to  this  side,  and  right  with  this. So,  we  need  to  know  now,  Soother, we've  specified  the  number of  moles  within  this, we  need  to  go  into giving  our  enthalpies  of  formation, determine  the  enthalpies  of the  substances  at  the  reference  state, and  then  the  enthalpy with  the  new  temperature. Maybe  we  can  cancel  out  some  of  these  there. So  we  were  told  from  this  that  the  ethane  is entering  at  25  C.  And  what  atmosphere? And  so  again,  H  naught  is  by  definition, the  enthalp  that  you  have a  T  25  degrees  C  and  P  equals  to  one  ATM. And  so  since  the  ethane is  entering  at  exactly  this  condition, it's  essentially  an  H  naught minus  an  H  naught  there,  right? So  in  this,  that  will  go  that  will  go away  with  it.  The  HF. So  if  we  now  write  about  some  HF. So  HF  naughts, for  the  oxygen  and the  nitrogen  are  both  zero. So  if  we  have  HF  f  two,  right? This  is  equal  to  zero. The  HF  not  four  oh  two  is  also  equal  to  zero. And  this  is  by  definition. This  is  that  we were  able  to  define  a  reference  state, and  we  decided  that  that  was  the  case  for  it. If  we  go  to  the  rest  of  them, write  our  HF  for tropa  formation  for  ethane  then. Here  c2h6  is  minus  84680. Kilo  joules  per  kilomole. It's  basically  table  values  are H  F  n  four  what  we  say  we  had  Athene, we  can  look  at  02,  we've  already  done. We  can  keep  track  of  this.  So  this  one is,  we've  done  it. We've  done  it.  We've  done  it.  We've  done  it. So  the  HF  naught  then  for  h2o  h2o, and  then  this  is  for  the  gaseous  state is  minus 241e2,  kilojules  per  kilomole. The  H  f  naught  then  for  CO  two, for  the  CO  two  case, this  is  equal  to minus  39352  kilos  per  kilomole. As  we  done  now,  we  did  this  HF,  not  for  C  02. And  for  our  C  O, which  should  be  So  we  did  also  the  h2o, which  is  done,  and our  last  one  then  is  for  CO. So  the  enthalpy  formation then  of  our  CO  is  equal  to minus  1153  kiloju  per  kilo  mole  there. All  right?  And  so  this takes  care  of  our  last  one. Good.  All  right. And  so  now  what  we  need  to  do is  we  need  to  go  in  and  then  determine the  enthalpies  at the  temperatures  when  they  come  in. So  the  enthalp  for  the  oxygen, we're  going  to  be  looking  up  at 500  alvin  and  the same  for  a  for  nitrogen  for  these, and  then  for  the  H  knots. Those  are  just  the  reference  cases,  right? We  take  those  then  essentially  at  the 25  C.  When  it comes  to  all  of the  reactants  or  the  products, I'm  sorry,  for  all  the  products, that  temperature  is  at  800  Kalvin,  right? So  the  Hs  that  appear  here, we  calculate  those  at  800  Kalvin, and  then  each  of  the  H  knots, we  take  them  at  25  at  25  C  there. Right.  So  I  would like  to  erase  this  board  or  at  least  move  it. Maybe  I'll  move  it  behind. The  questions  so  far,  this  is  clear. That's  a  bit  tedious,  but  it's  I  don't  know. I  don't  know  a  better  way.  All  right.  Good. So  let's  start  with  maybe  the  H  knots  first. So  again,  this  is  where  we're  looking at  our  H  knots, which  are  equal  to  the  H  is that  T  is  25  degrees  C, and  P  is  one  ATM,  right? So  if  we  start,  for  example,  u  with  oxygen. So  our  02.  And  I'll write  the  units  up  here  as  well. So  this  is  going  to  be  in  units  of kilo  joules  per  kilomole. There.  So  for  the  02,  this  is  8682. I  have  the  unit  there.  My  n two  is  8669.  Alright. Mh2o.  I  have  this  as  9904, C  02  is  then  9364. And  then  carbon  monoxide  is  8669. All  right.  Look  that. And  the  final  parts. So  if  we  go  now  and  look  at  our  thing, what  have  we  gotten? So  we  have  the  H  not  four? Here.  F  02  is  done. For  N  two  is  done  for  h2o.  It's  done. For  carbon  dioxide,  it's done  and  carbon  monoxide,  it's  also  done. So  now  what  we  have  remaining is  simply  just  the  enthalpies of  these  gases  at their  different  temperatures. Now  we're  onto  enthalpies. So  we  can  talk  about  the  reactants. All  right. And  the  first  thing as  we  said  is,  right  for  the  ethane, those  cancel  and  they're outs  were  only  looking at  oxygen  and  nitrogen. So  this  is  again,  the  enthalpy at  that  temperature  and that  pressure  and  the  unit  of  this is  kilojoules  per  kilomole. So  for  the  reactant,  oxygen, right,  02,  which  is  coming  in  at  500  kelvin. Is  at  500  Kelvin.  That  enthalpy  is 141477  kilogs  per  kilomol and  for  nitrogen  at  the  same  temperature. The  entropy  is  14581  kilogs per  kilomol  great. We'll  get  to  look  at  the  products.  All  right. So  products.  Again,  it's the  enthalpy  at that  temperature  and  the  pressure. And  we  have  kilojules per  kilomole  as  our  unit. And  the  temperature  you're  going  to compute  this  at  is  at  800  Kelvin. All  the  products  are  at  800  Kelvin. So  the  enthalpy  for  CO two  at  that  temperature  is 32179  kilogos per  kilomol  for  carbon  monoxide. It's  23844  for  water  vapor,  right? So  this  is  a  gas  here. This  is  272  7896  and  four  nitrogen,  and  two. Sorry  for  those  in  the  front  that  can't  see, but  it's  223714  kilojoules  per  kilomo. Now  we  can  look  back  at  our  formula. All  right. So  again,  those  canceled  out  by  definition. We  have  our  entopen  in  for  the  oxygen, enthalpy  in  for  the  nitrogen. Move  to  the  reactants. We  got  CO  two,  which  is  there. We  have  carbon  monoxide, which  is  there,  we  have  water  vapor, which  is  there,  and  nitrogen, which  is  there.  All  right. So,  and  we  already  had  determined the  different  moles  of the  products  and  the  reactants. All  right.  So  essentially, at  that  state,  you  do the  substitution  with  those  numbers. You'll  get  your  your  Q  out,  right? So  you'll  get  your  Q  out,  which  is in  kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  the  question  wanted  you  to have  this  in  a  rate. So,  to  put  this  into  a  rate  format, our  Q  there,  right? It's  Q  dot  is  equal  to this  Q  times  m  dot,  right? And  the  dot.  We  were  told  is  this. So  you  have  five  5  kilograms/hour. And  then  this  is  the  mass  floate  of  the  c2h6. And  why  is  that? Well,  the  reason  for  that  is  because this  Q  is  the  heat generated  for  1  mole,  right? We  just  selected  1  mole  of  fuel  here,  right? So  this  is  the  heat  transferred  out  when  you burn  basically  1  mole  of  ethane  there. And  so  this  really the  units  of  this  energy  are like  kilojoules per  kilogram  of  ethane,  right? So  if  I  take  that  kilojoules  per  kilogram  of ethane  and  I  multiply it  by  the  mass  fluoride  of  ethane, I'm  going  to  get  the  rate  of heat  heat  transfer  there. Okay? And  the  number  that  I  have  after all  that  substitution  is 161  7  kilowatts  there.  Okay? Q  is. Say  it  again.  Sorry. The  right  of  the  Q  resolving.  So  this  Q  out. This  is  a  good  question.  So  what  I  want to  look  at  here  is  the  unit  of  enthalpy, which  is  kilo  joules  per  kilomole. Ns  are  in  kilomole. So  if  I  multiply  these  together, I  just  have  kilos. So  this  Q  is  just  in  Well, so  that's  what  I  want  to  prephas  on,  right? This  is  basically  kilos. But  the  point  is  that  if I  think  about  the  meaning  of  the  Q, I  have  essentially  looked  at  burning  1  mole. Of  ethane  here  in  this, and  it  produces  that  heat  that's  out. So  one  way  to  dimensionally  think about  this  Q  out  is  it  is  in  kilojoules, but  it's  like  the  kilojoules per  1  mole  of  ethane.  All  right? And  that's  important  because  when I  come  to  this  formula  here, if  I  think  about  that  kilo  joules  per kilogram  of  burn  ethane, and  I  multiply  it  then  by the  mass  flate  of  the  ethane, I'm  essentially  going  to  get a  kilowatts  out,  right? I  that.  Does  that  make  sense? Yeah.  Kilograms. Oh,  I  understand  what  you're  saying  to  me. You  know. So  what  you  want  is  hold  on a  second.  No,  no,  you're  absolutely  right. So  let  me  think  for a  a  quick  second  with  that. No,  no,  Max,  you're  absolutely  right. So  what  would  I  have  to  do? So  if  I  basically  wrote,  hold  on  a  second. So  if  we  look  at  this,  and  we say  that  this  has  units,  let's  say, of  kilojo  per  kilo  mole of  c2h6.  What  would  I  do  next? You'd  have  a  molar  mass,  I'd  have a  molar  mass  of  Athene,  right? Which  has  units  of  kilograms per  kilo  mole,  right? I  would  divide  this,  right? So  then  basically,  I  would  take  my  Q  dot  out. I  would  divide  it  by  my  mc2h6, and  then  my  units  would  then  be kilojoules  per kilogram  of  c2h6,  right? And  so  then  if  I  wanted  that  to  be in  with  the  mass fl  rate  that  I'm  given  in  kilograms. Then  my  Q. Lot  of  space  here.  Behind  this. Yeah,  of  course,  there  is.  Let's  do  this. So  we  have  that  there.  So  then  if  I want,  so  I  have  Q. This  is  just  Q,  right? This  is  also  Q  like  that. So  if  I  then  want  Q  dot, right,  which  has  units  of  kilowatts.  A? This  would  be  equal  to my  original  Q  on  a  molar  basis, divided  by  the  molar  mass  of  c2h6. All  right.  And  then this  is  kilos  per  kilogram, and  then  I  would  multiply this  by  the  mass  flow  rate then  of  c2h6,  right? Here.  Okay.  Yeah,  that's a  good  catch.  Sorry  for  that. Other  comments? I'll  I'll  update  the numerical  answers  on  that on  the  code  online  after  a  class,  right? Obviously, I  should  finish  the  last  problem  here  with a  mistake  and  with  the  astute students  who  catch  me  on  it. Any  comments  about  this  before I  start  telling  stories? No.  Alright.  Wonderful. Yeah,  that  basically  concludes. Right?  The  course,  in  terms  of  the  topics. The  last  thing  I  want  to  give  you is  to  kind  of  tell  you  the  limits. First  thing,  the  limits  of  where thermo  is  applicable  and  isn't  applicable. So  it  kind  of  segues  for those  of  you  that  are  thinking, you  know,  graduate  school and  and  energy  and  all  of  it. The  next  step  after  that  is  to  now start  to  look  at  the limits  of  the  application. So  for  this,  we  can  think  about a  characteristic  length  of  a  system. So  it's  L,  it's  a  size. And  we  can  compare  this with  other  sizes  in  the  system,  right? This  can  be  men  atomic  spacing. So  think  like  in  a  crystal,  right, how  close  the  atoms  are  packed  together, it  could  be  in  a  gas,  right? The  distance  that  they  are on  average  away  from  each  other, the  Broglie  wave  length,  right? Everything  even  matter  as  a  wave. Gradient  of  temperature,  right? So  the  distance  over  a  gradient, and  what  we  call  is  the  mean  free  path. That's  important  gases. How  far  does  a  molecule  travel before  it  hits  another  molecule? All  right.  Yeah. So  again,  you  went into  the  other  building and  had  some  quantum,  right? That's  where  that's  relevant  fluid  mechanics. So  what  is  one  oh  61  oh nine  or  whatever  type  material that'll  come  up  there. Coming  back  to the  early  examples  that  we  have, you  know,  one  way  to  do  this  is  to  say,  k, let's  focus  on  that,  you  know, the  problem  of  the  mean  free  spacing. So  you  can  see  this,  this  kind of  ensemble  of  collisions. And,  you  look  at  it,  and  you  would  say, a,  could  I  define  an  equilibrium  initially? You  had  a  bunch  more  of  the  molecules, and  you  would  look, and  then  you  would  say,  Oh,  you  know, could  I  define  it,  all  right? And  the  take  home  message is  that  the  earlier  one, you're  not  going  to  be  able  to  define  it. There's  just  not  enough  going  on  there. If  you  were  to  go  and  analyze  things  like speed  distribution  or  the  kinetic  energy, I  just  looks  too  random  with  it. So  as  you  get  smaller, right  with  things,  you  know, everything  we've  developed  here  so  far on  kind  of  the  equilibrium  thermodynamics, and  looking  at  it,  it's  not  going  to work  when  you  get to  smaller  sizes,  all  right? You  got  to  get  into  things like  statistical  mechanics, non  equilibrium  thermodynamics,  and  that, right?  I  have  another  video. I'm  not  sure  why. Let's  see  what  this  one  does. But  anyway,  you  can  go  through these  things  and  try  out  sort  of the  different  situations  and  see  when  things look  like  they're  definable  as  a  state, and  there  and  they're  not. And  if  you  remember for  what  the  early  thing  is, things  like  temperature,  if  I want  to  talk  about  an  equilibrium, I  could  talk  about  defining  a  temperature, and  the  temperature,  you  know, would  be  definable  in  this  system  based  on some  kind  of  RMS  velocity,  right? Because  for  ideal  gases, all  the  kinetic  energy  is  translational. Temperature  is  nothing  but  coefficient  of proportionality  multiplied  by  the  temperature equals  to  the  kinetic  energy.  It. And  so  if  you  can't  really define  a  good  distribution  on the  kinetic  energy  or like  a  mean  value  of  it, you're  not  going  to  be  able  to  say  that  there is  a  temperature  which means  you  can't  define  an  equilibrium. Okay?  And  you  could  go  in, you  could  analyze  these  things. This  is  getting,  then,  like  I  said, kind  of  foreshadowing  in  a  stuff like  statistical  mechanics, where  you  then  start  to  analyze these  kinds  of  distributions. These  are  called  partitions  partitions, and  it  gets  very  Mattha, but  it's  a  lot  of  fun,  right? But  again,  that's  kind  of  what  comes  next, and  that  tells  you, when  things  get  small,  that's pretty  much  like  the  limit. A  lot  of  the  tools  that  we  have  will  kind of  break  down  as  you  miniaturize. But  it  could  also  be  fun  because  things start  to  violate  your  understanding. Good.  Second  thing  is  on  the  history. Again,  just  a  refresher, you  know,  for  you  there,  right? So  the  historical  development  was  the  French, you  know,  French  Losing,  their  Wars, Carno  son  of  one  of the  generals  there  made  it  his  life's mission  to  make better  engines  than  the  English. His  work  was  mostly  kind of  ignored  until,  like, I  think  Capern  came  around and  us  had  often  presented  it. Mid  1850s,  Rudolf  Clausius, the  first  chair  of  Physics  at  A  Taha  wrote, you  know,  this,  essentially,  the  energy of  the  Universe  is  constant. And  the  entropy  of  the  world tends  to  a  maximum. That's  the  first  and  the  second  laws. You  know,  there  And, you  know,  again,  originally, the  questions  were  mostly  about,  like, you  know,  is  energy  conserved? So  Jewel  was  doing  stuff,  like,  okay, I  put  work  in, and  it  all  converts  in  to  heat. And  so  they  were  interested  in sort  of  the  first  law  with it  and  through  Carno trying  to  make  better  engines  and stuff,  you  know,  developed  the  second  law. Klausi  has  kind  of  formalized  it  within  it. But  again,  that  was  mostly  heat in  to  work  and  vice  versa. Um,  you  know,  later  on,  Maxwell, Boltzman  Gibbs,  started  to generalize  this  a  bit  more. You  know,  they  realized  it  wasn't  just about  that  kind  of  energy  conversion. It  could  predict,  you  know, spontaneous  processes. So  think  of  reaction, think  about  the  direction, the  heat  flows,  mass  flows,  and  all  of  that. There  was  a  really  nice  kind  of  history for  the  real  nerds  and  hardcore  ones  in the  room  going  in  and  look  into the  development,  you  know,  of  that. This  is  the  formula.  Again,  as  you  get into  the  sort  of  the  higher  level  thermo, you'll  define  entropy  in  a  different  way. They'll  talk  about  these  particles. You  talk  about  probabilities,  right? So  entropy  is  nothing,  but,  you  know, Boltman  constant  times the  natural  log  of  what's  called thermodynamic,  you  know,  probability. This  is  Omega.  It's  much  bigger  than  one. There's  analogies  of  this  and,  like,  poker. You  look  into  poker  and  stuff and  permutations.  And  that. And  so,  you  know, entropy  is  basically  then  related  to the  most  probable  macro  state, you  know,  with  it. So  if  you  really  want  to get  a  good  understanding or  get  very  confused, you  know,  go  read  more on  Wikipedia  about  that. The  formula  itself  was then  written  by  Boltzmann. So  that's  his  tombstone. Sometimes  when  you  do  work  that's  so  good, your  epitaph  is  an  equation,  right? So  he's  one  of  those  guys  and  you're one  of  those  people  who  did  that. W  is  probability  in German,  Boltzman  was  Austrian. Very  tragic  story,  though,  a  lot  about, I  think,  I  would  say,  bullying and  peer  pressure  and  stuff, but  really  phenomenal  inspiring in  the  sense  of  being  groundbreaking, because  at  the  time  that  he  did  this, he  had  people  like  Ernest  Mach  and all  that  who  did  not believe  in  the  Adam,  right? They  were  a  positivists,  and a  positivist  is  somebody  who, if  I  can't  measure  something,  it's  not  real. Imagine  that.  And  Mock  was  like, a  smart  dude,  right? So  he  didn't  believe  in  the  atom  and  stuff, and  they  disparaged  you  know, Boltzmann  cause  it  didn't  line  up  with the  beautiful  math  and  stuff  here. Thermo  was  considered  rational. It  wasn't,  you  know,  statistical looked  messy  and  this  and  that, and  that  upset  a  lot of  the  establishment,  the  status  quo. And  Boltzman  was  anything  but status  quo  and  his  thinking. But  ultimately,  he  was  right.  So  he went  on  in  Yeah. And  then,  you  know,  probably  the most  famous  and  most important  engineer  that  the  United  States ever  produced  was  then  Gibbs. And  so  he  went  in  and  then  really took  Boltzmann  and  brought  it  even  further. There  were  some  mistakes  in Boltzmann's  analysis. He  expanded  on  it,  and  I  think, especially  if  you're  in chemical  engineering  and  stuff. I  was  in  a  Qualls  exam  today,  and,  you  know, he  he  comes  up  in  the  work. There  comes  up  in  a  lot  of different  settings, you  know,  and  even  thermo. If  you  look  at  the  story  of  like quantum  mechanics  and  how  it  developed, it  was  a  thermodynamics  problem. The  original  problem  was  called the  classical  theory  was the  ultra  violet  was  ultraviolet, not  paradox,  ultraviolet  catastrophe, ultraviolet  catastrophe. And  in  short,  it  had  to  do with  the  fact  that,  you  know, things  that  weren't  quantized, as  you  decrease  the  wavelength  of  light, eventually, you  should  have this  huge  irradiance  that  come, so  you  could  do  experiments  like  a  cavity, like  a  small  hole,  and  you  could  analyze at  a  temperature the  radiation  you  should  get. And  classical  theory  said  it  should  be  huge. In  reality,  we  know  it's  less. So  you  can  measure,  for  example,  the  sun, if  you  look  at  something,  and  it's  hot, it  will  be  a  color,  right? So  you  look  at  the  sun.  The  color of  it  tells  you  the  temperature. You  learned  that  in  you  he  transferred. Well,  don't  look  at  the  sun.  All  right? But,  like,  you  know, you  look  at  a  fire,  right? And  you  say  a  blue  flame is  hotter  than  an  orange  one,  right? And  you  know,  that's  because,  you  know, blue  has  the  higher  energy, you  know,  electrons  and  stuff. So  you  can  see  that. And  then  Max  Plank, who  has  a  bunch  of  institutes  in  Germany, the  most  famous  ones  named  after  him, he  went  in  and  with  others. There  was,  of  course,  other  people. And  that  had  worked  with  it, but  ultimately  had  kind  of  solved  it. But  to  solve  it,  he  invoked quantum  mechanics  to  do  so. And  essentially,  like,  you  take like  a  guitar  string  and  you  pluck  it, there's  only  certain  number  of harmonics  that  can  support,  right? N  equals  one,  n  equals  two. But  as  I  get  smaller, there's  like  a  limit,  right? And  that  cuts  you  off. Einstein  also  did  something  with  this. If  you  look  in  Einstein  solid before  Mach  are  before  Plank. Einstein  had  talked  about an  Einstein  solid  to  predict  specific  heat, cause  as  you  cool  a  solid  down, the  specific  heat  drops. And  to  explain  that  he  went  in  and  he  modeled the  atoms  as  being connected  by  a  spring.  That's  the  same  thing. You  have  a  spring. The  spring  is  like  a  guitar,  right? You  have  a  certain  number  of  waves, types  of  waves  that  it can  hold  and  e  quantized. So  in  two  basically  approaches, they  invoke quantum  mechanics  to  explain  phenomenon, but  neither  one  of  them  was  proud  of  it. Like  Plank  was  about  as conservative  as  a  dude there  was  and  was  like, You  know,  I  have  my  results  they  are  right, but,  you  know,  I'm  not  talking  that,  like, I  invented  a  whole  field  and  the  same  sort of  with  with  Einstein. But  what  I  mean  to  say  from  this is  that  the  origins  of, like,  a  lot  of  that  exciting  stuff you  have  today  is  thermo. These  are  people  doing  thermo  and  that. C  two  more  stories. Soldier.  I  like  to  tell  sores. All  right.  Thank  you  for  humoring  me. We  didn't  talk  about  the  third  law of  thermo,  but  over  time, it  became  clear  and  if  we  had  one  more  week, I  could  talk  more  about  chemical  reactions. But  a  third  law  that  was  invoked  is that  there  is  a  state  where the  entropy  is  zero,  right? And  that  state  is  a  crystal,  right? Basically,  a  perfect  crystal. As  it  approaches  zero, you  know,  the  temperature  approaches  zero. And  so,  again,  I  don't  want  to invoke  too  much  statistical  mechanics, but  you  can  tell  your  parents, your  professor  told  you  a  little  bit  on  it. If  I  take,  you  know,  1,000  identical  atoms and  I  place  them  perfectly at  a  position  there, there's  only  one  arrangement,  right? There's  only  one  probable  state  of that  for  identical  atoms. So  right,  the  natural  log  of one  is  zero,  right? Okay. So  it's  not  only  dude. There  was  a  lot  of, you  know,  great,  you  know, you  know,  women  who  worked  in  this  field. One  who  I'm  particularly inspired  by  was  Agnes  Pokles. Pokles  was  a  young  woman, German  woman,  who  was doing  work  on  like  surface  science. So  she  was  looking  into  essentially  literal, like,  kind  of  kitchen  sink experiments  of,  like,  taking  water, looking  at  sort  of  additives  to  it, and  then  studying  how  this  affected this  contaminations  affected surface  tension  with  it. And  she  had  the  guts. Basically,  had  w  right  around  your  age  to write  a  letter  to  the  most  famous physicist  of  the  time  in  the  UK. Raleigh  there,  and  the  results  were  so  good that  Lord  Raleigh  was,  like,  you  know, These  are  amazing,  and  he  basically sent  off  the  letter  to  be published  in  nature. So  before  she  was  30,  she  had  a  nature  paper, you  know,  first  author  on  that.  Amazing. And  so  basically,  the  founder of  modern  surface  Science  there. And  then  it  went  beyond  that. Then  it  wasn't  just  materials. You  have  this  person, Shannon,  Cloud  Shannon  here, who  realized  that  some of  this  framework  that  was  there  for  thermo, we  said  surfaces  machines  and  that  also had  utility  in  the  transmission  of  data. Basically  how  you  know, how  much  information  do  you  need  to  put  on the  telephone  line  to  get your  message  across,  right? From  that.  And  so,  basically,  you  know, information  then  became  measurable, very  important  nowadays,  right? A  AI.  And  how  we  handle  it. And  the  story  that  I  like  about  this, I  think  you  can  read  it. I  read  this  last  year  when  I  made  the  slide, but  he  was  talking  to  John  Van  Neuman. Von  Neumann  was  one  of the  There  was  a  couple  of very  important  Hungarian  scientists that  emigrated  to  the  United  States, Von  Neuman,  Tyler,  and  others. But  Von  Neumann,  you  know, he  proposed  basically  AI, he  proposed,  like  the  computer. Like,  you  know,  there's  a  bunch  of  stuff. You  know,  that  he  had  done,  and  he  was talking  to Shannon,  and  he  said,  Well,  you  know, why  don't  you  basically  call it  information,  you  know, entrap  because  no  one already  knows  what  it  is, and  it's  going  to  give  you an  edge  over  people. All  right?  It's  a  kind  of  a  funny  one. But  again,  now  it's  like  thermo  today, like  I  said,  it's  much  more  universal. It's  not  just  heat  engines, went  through  chemistry,  through  materials, even  into  electrical  engineering  there,  okay? I  just  want  to  say  here,  you  know, if  these  things  appeal  to you  in  some  way,  we'll  be  teaching, I'll  teach  a  course  next  semester on  energy  conversion  principles, essentially  looking  at energy  conversion  with  renewable  systems. I'm  still  working  sort  of  on  the  content, but  it  is an  established  course  that  Professor  Carey taught  for  a  number  of  years  there, so  that'll  be  next  semester. I  think  that  time  is  right  with  that. So  with  that,  I  can  basically  say that  I'm  done  telling  my  old  man, dad  stories  about  the  field  of  thermo. And  he  got  a  bit  of  better  sense about  when  it's  appropriate, my  closing  remarks. So  I  didn't  get  to  show  this  the  first. Alright,  but  it's  kind of  classic  in  teaching. So  you  have  this  first  one. Any  time  you  go  through  it. You  don't  understand  it  at all.  That's  you  today. The  second  time  you  go  through  it, you  think  you  understand  it,  except for  one  or  two  small  points. And  the  third  time,  you  go  through  it. You  know  you  don't  understand  it,  but  by that  time  you're  so  used  to  it, it  doesn't  bother  you. And  that's  mood.  Alright. Arnold  Zomerfeld,  I  couldn't  find  it. Zemerfeld  is  very  interesting,  too. He  didn't  win  an  bel  prize  himself, but  he  had  like  five  or  ten  students  who went  on  to  win  Nobels  from  it. So  he  was  a  prodigy great  mentor,  apparently,  with  that. Okay,  so  I'm  gonna  close. Thank  you  very  much  for  all  this  there. And  next  week,  Yeah,  hold  on. Next  week  is  great. Next  week,  we  have  the  RRR, so  I'm  intending  to  be  Mor the  GSIs  here  3-4  each  day. The  GSIs  are  planning  to  run a  two  hour  session  on Wednesday  three  to  five  with  it, I'll  at  least  be  here three  to  four  on  Monday. So  if  you  got  a  question about  the  projects  and  all  that, we  can  talk  that  otherwise, it  was  a  great,  you  know,  here, good  luck  on  your  Prep,  and  we'll see  you  next  week,  okay?  Thank  you.
