So,  I'm  going  to  open up  by  talking  about  the  exam. Exam.  No  longer  a  word  that  he  used  to  mean. Okay,  fine.  Okay,  so  there's  a  few  questions. The  first  thing  is  that  tomorrow  at  9:00 A.M.  You  can  go  on  to Prairie  test  and  register  for  your  slot. It's  going  to  be  over  two  days. One  of  the  days, I  think  the  second  day  runs  late. I  think  you  can  go  as  late  as  like  9:00  P.M. There  for  it,  so  be  sure  to  do  it. There  is  a  date  October  3.  There  is  one  slot. Okay.  This  is  not  like  you  know, cliff  hanger,  one  to  rule  them  all. Please  do  not  register  for  that  slot. That's  like  our  test  slot  to make  sure  that  it  all  goes  well. So  if  you  do  register  for  that, I'm  going  to  give  you  a  difficult  exam, and  you  do  the  guinea  pig  work  of making  sure  that  it  doesn't  go  wrong. So  don't  register  for  the  one  day where  there's  one  slot,  right? Unless  you  want  what  I  just  said. Second  thing  is  if  you  go to  Homework  four  and  five, the  first  page  that  you  open  it, you're  going  to  see  a  couple  of  things, the  answer  booklet  as  usual, but  there's  a  formula  sheet, and  then  the  property  tables, the  manual  ones  there. For  the  formula  sheet, it's  here,  right?  It's  sparse. But  again,  for  the  first  week, I  don't  think  you  need  much. If  there's  really  something  you feel  that's  like definitely  missing  from  this, I  welcome  that  information. Even  better  is  if  you  generate a  version  of  this  PDF  like  this  that's  like, slightly  improved  and  sent  it  to  me. Think  like  Easy.  Make  my  life  easy. I'm  happy  to  then  overwrite  it. I  in  discussion  with  the  GSIs and  teaching  staff,  we  think  that's  good. Okay? The  third  thing  I  want  to  say  is  that  for any  problem  that  involves the  use  of  water  there, you  will  see  this  open  work  space, which  is  here.  So  you  click  that. It  launches  local  version of  a  Jupiter  notebook. It's  a  restricted  one.  It  doesn't have  access  to  the  Internet. Alright?  And  if  you  want  to  use  this, all  you  do  is  you  double  click  on the  workbook  and  I  have a  seam  tables  calculator. Casey  you  don't  know  how  to  use  that. In  Jupiter,  you don't  run  the  whole  file  at  once. Usually  run  step  by  step. So  play  import.  You  import  this  file. Do  not  open  that  Python  file,  right? That's  don't  open  it. I  have  a  couple  of  versions  of  how  to  compute the  class  at  that  state  here. They're  commented  out. In  Python  syntax,  the  hash  tag  is  there. Spina  is  not  a  word.  This  is  not  like what  is  that  weird  word  that  Trump said?  Cocoa  fe? So  Spina  is  not  a  word, so  it's  commented  out,  but  you can  put  in  things  like  the  temperature, the  pressure,  the  quality, and  then  it  would  spit  out if  you  ran  that  this. We  can  print  all  the  values  there. I  even  do  some  conversion  like  that. I  recommend  familiarizing yourself  with  this  before  the  exam. Work  smarter,  not  harder, right?  This  is  everything  for  the  water. And  this  is  the  whole  flipping  point  of why  we  use  the  computer to  base  testing  facilities. You  have  a  computer,  and  you  can  use  this. You  don't  got  to  flip  in  the  book, again,  like,  it's  the  1800s  there. Any  questions?  Hiden. The  homeworks. So  this  most  recent  one is  now  due  Monday.  Yeah. And  the  second  homework  five  homeworks are  due  homeworks  one, two,  three,  four,  five  or  due  Monday. So  finish  it  for  100%  credit. They  can  be  if  they're  due  after  that, and  not  making  the  statements about  the  screw  ups  that  I've  had. But  so  that's  due  Monday. And  then  the  next  five  homeworks  or  four, I  think  it's next  four  or  five  homeworks  are  then due  in  like  a  month  or  so  later. Okay?  So  we  do  it  in  modules. October  12. October  12,  it  opens. So  this  is  very  important  comprehension, important  to  read  what's  written  there. Okay?  You  guys  see  it  date, and  you  flip  out  and  I  get  like  these e  mails,  like,  it's  crisis. I  don't  want  you  to  freak  out,  so read  all  of  the  text. And  what  it  will  say  if  you  read  it carefully  is  that  it  opens. It  opens  on  October  12. You  see  it,  and  it's going  to  be  due  in  November. November  is  like  ages. November  doesn't  even  exist,  right? This  is  like  ages  from  now,  okay? So,  I'm  not  here  to  punish  you. I  don't  want  to  make  your  life  hard, alright?  More  hard  than  it  needs  to  be. Yes,  please.  9:00  A.M. Tomorrow.  Mid  term  one  page  B  course is  all  information  there. Read  it.  Look  at  it. It's  definitely  there,  but  9:00  A.M. Tomorrow,  and  do  not  pick  October 3  for  the  slot,  okay? Good.  Alright.  Let's  get  started. Alright.  So  if  I  go  back  now  to my  Oh,  Broadway.  Okay. And  I'm  speaking  forcefully  'cause  I'm very  passionate  about  this, and  I  want  to  go  well. And  I  want  you  to  do  amazing.  All  right. Yes. Good.  So  we're  here  now, so  we're  going  to  start  looking  at  some  of these  processes  and  the  utility  of  entropy. We've  talked  about  it  as  a  concept, and  I  want  to  apply  the  thinking of  I'd  say  entropy  analysis, specifically  focusing  on  what are  called  isentropic  processes. So  the  most  ones  that  are  reversible, ones  where  we  don't  have  that, and  then  I'll  define  with  if  there's  time some  differential  entropy  relations  there. All  right.  So  here's  an  example of  a  problem  you'd  be  given,  right? So  here  we  have  a, a  turbine  here,  so  if  some  steam coming  in  at  some  entropy  or  some  state, which  has  an  entropy  associated  with  it. Know  your  reversibility, so  it's  internally  reversible. And  then  out  of  that,  because it's  an  isentropic  process  S  two. So  the  entropy  exiting  is equal  to  what  enters. Alright?  So  it's  reversible. We  also  don't  have  any  heat  transferred  in. It's  adiabatic,  right? So  what  did  that  look  like  as  a  problem? So  again,  so  we  have  a  steam  turbine  here. We're  given  the  state,  right? So  this  is  50  bar,  450  celsius. This  is  steam,  right? This  is  super  hot  there. We're  exiting  at  a  lower  pressure  here. We  have  some  work  transfer  out. We're  not  giving  a  mass  flow  rate. The  question  asked  us,  what's the  work  output  per  unit  mass? Because  this  is  the  book,  they  also  give  us, on  the  TS  diagram. Remember  this  is the  saturated  vapor  dome  here. And  we're  starting  off here  at  this  high  temperature. So  here  you  have  the  Io  the IO  bars  right  the  line at  state  one,  and  it's  isentropic. So  that  means  it  moves  down  in  temperature, right  here, but  the  same  entry  p  to  State  two. And  I'd  like  to analyze  this  problem  today  for  you. Alright? Great. Okay,  so,  as  I  said,  so I'm  we  have  the  turbine  there. So  this  is  our  turbine.  All  right? We  have  some  shaft  work,  right? Work  transferred  out  of  the  system. We  have  some  inlet  at  state  one, and  we  have  an  exit  at  State  two. I  know  I'm  flipping  it  according to  what  I  had  there,  but  it's  fine. This  is  our  control  volume here.  So  those  are  CV. The  dash  line  is  our  control  volume, which  I'm  going  to  call  CV, and  what  we  want  to  know. So  we're  trying  to  find  what  is W  dot  divided  by  M  dot. We  M  dot  is  then  the  mass  flux that's  entering  and  exiting  the  system. So  the  first  assumption  we make  is  that  it's  steady  state, so  we  have  a  steady  process, which  means  that  our  DM  Cv  dt  is equal  to  m.in  minus  m  dot out  because  it's  steady.  This  term  is  gone. So  n  dot  is  equal  to  m  dot  out, is  equal  to  m  dot,  right? We  can  do  the  d  E  CV, so  the  change  in  energy within  the  control  volume is  a  function  at  time, is  equal  to  e  dot  n  minus  r  dot. And  the  same  thing  again,  our  e  dot  is equal  to  our  e  dot  R  dot  out. Let  me  check  that.  This  is  recording. I  concerned. Of  course  captures  in  progress. The  trouble  is  I  don't  have  a  video. Okay,  good.  We're  fine. So  steady  state  here. And  the  other  thing  is,  as  we  said  there, the  process  is  is  ice  and  tropic. So  this  S  one,  little  S  one  is  equal to  Little  S  two,  right? That's  good.  So  I'm  going  to move  that  to  here. So  let's  go.  We're  going  to  basically, we're  going  to  define the  states  at  state  one. And  because  of  the  process  is  isentropic, so  we're  going  to  determine  S  one. And  since  we  know  P  two and  that  S  two  equals  S  one, we  also  know  the  properties  then  of state  two  we  have  enough  information  there. Let's  look  first  at  state  one. So  at  state  one  with  P  one  is equal  to  5  Megapascals. T  one,  is  equal  to  450  degrees  C. I  mean,  you  can  see  there  from the  image  that  it  is  superheated. If  you  wanted  to  double  check  yourself  there, what  you  could  do  is  you  could  search  for the  saturation  temperature  at  this  pressure. So  T  sat  at  P  one, and  this  is  equal  to 263  degrees  C.  So this  temperature  is  above  that, which  implies  that  it's  a superheated  It's  a  superheated  vapor,  right? And  again,  that's  kind of  helps  you  then  if  you're  doing manual  tables  and  looking  up  in  the  book. What  I  found  from  looking  up my  properties  is  that  H  one, so  the  al  P  at  this  state  is  then 37  kilos  per  kilogram. And  my  S  one  is  equal  to 6.81  kilo  per  kilogram  per  Kelvin. 6.821.  Yeah,  Kilojoules per  kilogram  per  Kalvin. For  state  two,  right? We  know  P  two  is  1.4  P  A. And  we  know  that  S  two  is equal  to  S  one  is  equal  to 6.821  kilos  per  kilogram  per  Kalvin,  right? So  we  can  do  that  quickly. I  can  show  you  an  example  of  how  to  do that  process through  the  Prairie  learn  workbook. So  what  does  that  look  like? For  the  lookup.  So  if  I  come  here, I've  already  loaded  this,  so I  import,  I  run,  I  run. So  here,  our  T,  like  I  said, we  have  the  P  two. We're  not  looking  with  temperature  here. So  we  have  P  two  in  in  MPA,  which  is  1.4. So  I  have  1.4  with  that. We're  not  working  with  quality. We  have  S  two,  which  is kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  Calvin, which  is  equal  to  6.8 to  one  Here,  you  can  do  this. We  have  P  two, and  then  we  can  say  S  is equal  to  this,  right? We  don't  need  to  print  the  S  here. I'll  just  leave  these  with the  one  because  it'll  make  it easier  for  printing.  What's  it  Mad  about? Is  Mad  about  Water  is T.  Let  me  see  really  quickly  with  this. So  I  have  S  two,  with  this. Okay,  that  worked  and  there. All  right.  So  you  see  the  temperature  here went  up, you  see  that  that's  higher. And  then  with  the  H,  I  have  two. The  one  you  want  to  read  here  that  we're interested  from  that  output  is  2966. So  our  H  two.  As  you go  to  2996  point, let's  say,  three  kilos per  kilogram  there,  right? Good.  29.  What  did  I  write? Great.  29.  The  heat's  getting  to  me. 2,966.3.  Alright? Any  questions  about  that?  Is  Yes, Jackson.  How  do  you  know? Yeah,  so  I  tried  to  comment  that  here. You  know,  Like,  I  would  say  I  was  bordering, you  know,  on  being you  know,  really  crazy  about  it. So  here,  with  IAP  WS, it's  always  Kalvin  input  for  temperature, Megapascal  input  for  pressure. Outputs  are  things  like  specific  volume, which  is  then  like  SI  meters  per  kilogram. And  here  you  see  that the  energy  and  stuff  is  in  kilojoules. So  kilojoules  per  kilogram  per  Kelvin, just  as  the  book  tables  would  be, enthalpies,  here,  you see  kilojoules  per  kilogram. So  I  do  like  variable underscore  and  then  dimensions. So  you  can  see  with this  and  all  those  outputs, what  the  dimension  would  be  for  them. It's  a  good  question,  though. And  for  reasons  I  can't  explain, we  don't  adopt  SI  for  this. So.  But  the  compromise there  is  then  I  just  write  it  out  there. And  you  can  also  see with  my  print  function  when I'm  printing  temperature  trip  enthalpy, specific  volume  internal  energy. You  have  all  the  dimensions  there  like  that. Okay?  Other  questions about  that?  Yes,  please. So  this  is  the  whole  point. This  is  a  good  question. The  way  you  look  at  homework  four, when  you  click  a  problem,  you see  workbook  and  you  open, or  you  click  on  it,  and  you see  the  manual  tables  and  you  open, your  exam  is  going  to  look  the  same. Alright,  so  it's  really important  that  you  practice  one or  the  other  to  do  it and  prepare  yourself.  Okay? Yes.  Okay.  All  right. Great.  So  we  have  so  now  we  have  the  enthalpy at  at  our  state  there  at  State  two. And  so  we  can  come  back  to to  our  formula  here. So  I  guess  I  can  push  this  down.  All  right. So  we  have  the  e  dot  n  equals  the  e  dot  out. I'm  build  on  that  formula. So  the  e.in  e  dot. You  know,  with  this  system, we  can  transfer  energy into  the  control  volume  through  work, through  heat  or  through  flow,  right? The  mask  that  comes  in  can  carry  it. So  coming  in,  we  have  wt  plus  q  n  plus  m.in. I'm  going  to  write  it  as  m  dot according  to  what  I  said  there. We  have  one,  entopy  one  plus velocity  one  squared  two  plus  g  z  one, where  z  is  the  height  and  G  is acceleration  due  to  gravity,  et. Is  equal  to  wt  plus  q  dot  plus m.h2  plus  velocity  two squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z  two. All  right,  what  terms  go  away? We  don't  have  work  being  transferred  in. It's  not  apparent  that  we  have it's  an  diobatic  turbine, so  there's  no  heat  transfer  in  or  out. We  don't  have  any  indication  about big  changes  in  kinetic  or  potential  energy. Turbines  are  not  one of  the  systems  that  do  that. That's  something  like  a  nozzle. So  that's  gone  in  both  cases, and  we  do  have  work  being  transferred. We  have  a  little  W  out  that's  shown  there, just  to  remind  you  Little  W like  that  is  equal  then to  our  big  W  divided  by  M  dot. And  I'm  noting  my  little  W  out  there  with this  kind  of  cursiv  way  of  writing,  right? Not  to  be  confused  with  velocity. Alright?  So  that's  good. So  we  can  rearrange  this. And  then  our  W  dot  big  W is  m  dot  is  m.h1,  right? Cause  that's  on  would  be  on this  side  minus  H  two. All  right,  or  W divided  by  m  dot  is  equal  to  one  minus  H  two, which  is  ultimately  what we  want  in  this  problem. O  H  one  is  the  3317  kilojules  per  kilogram, and  our  H  two,  we  wrote  as 2,966.3  kilos  per  kilogram. I  then  out  of  this  get  349.8 kilos  per kilogram.  Clear? And  so  why  is  that  useful? That  is  useful  because  this  then  would  set right  the  upper  limit of  performance  that  you could  have  of  this  system. So  you  could  simply  say, Alright,  have  this  coming  in. I'm  gonna  have  this  pressure  at  the  exit. I  assume  my  centropic  for  those  conditions. And  that's  the  best  it  can  be,  right? You  can  only  be  we  You can  basically  only  be  we  than  that. And.  Alright?  Yes,  please. Yeah,  it's  ic  and  tropic. You  don't  have  any  internal  losses  or heat  generation  within  it. There's  no  friction,  right? Basically,  no  friction,  nothing  like  that. Okay.  And  so  we're  going  to  use  this. This  is  used  now,  but  it's used  a  lot  when  we  do  cycles  like  this. So  again,  we'll  use  this  for when  we  analyze  like a  power  plant  performance. We'll  look  at  things like  the  refrigeration  cycle also  with  like  isotropic  compressors, you'll  see. And  then  we'll  move  from  that  from the  idealized  cases  into  like  reality. And  those  reality  cases  are  going to  involve  shifts,  right? So  instead  of  the  line  being  straight  down, here  1-2,  you  know, you  would  expect  an  increase  e  venture  piece, so  probably  it's  going  to move  instead  of  straight  down, probably  somewhere  to  there  like  that,  right? But  that'll  be  the  next  stage. Alright. Super.  No,  since  we  did  so  well  with  that, I  we  get  some  more  math. And  hopefully  you're  all  pretty comfortable  too,  as  well  with  this, you  know,  this  approach,  then  for the  open  control  volumes or  masking  come  in  and  out. This  is  through  the  practice on  Homework  four  and  five become  automatic  for  you. Very  important  for  the  exam. Alright. Cool. Alright.  So  that's how  we  would  do  it  for working  with  water  and  with  steam. For  things  like  ideal  gases. If  you  think  about  ideal  gases  in handling  fluids  like  air, we  don't  need  to  use  the  tables  for  that. We  can,  but  we  can  also develop  relations  that  allow  us  to more  easily  understand the  transformations  from  state  to  state. And  in  particular,  we  can  do  things  like relating  changes  in  temperature  and  pressure. If  we  know  temperature and  pressure  at  state  one, and  we  know  the  pressure  at  state  two, we  can  determine  the  temperature  simply  from some  straightforward  relations  instead  of doing  what  I  did  there  with  the  table. So  these  are  the it's  great  a  temperature  warning in  thermonms  class. Irony  is  not  lost  on  me. So,  differential  entropy  change relations  they're  called. So  these  are  useful. Four  dal  ideal  gas,  right? Where's  my  phone?  It's  here. Okay. That  temperature  warning  just gave  me  a  thing. Can  you  hold  on  for a  second  My  son's  stake  here? Close  us  of  temperature. Yeah,  good.  So  it's useful  for  the  ideal  gases. You  know,  as  I  said,  alternatively, alternatively,  we  can  use  electronic, property  tables,  if  we  want, but  these  ones  are  kind  of  instructive, and  they're  going  to  be helpful  when  we  analyze  some of  the  power  cycles and  stuff  that  come  later. So  the  fluids  we're  talking  about  here are  things  like  air,  you  know, nitrogen,  like  that,  right? So  we  can  look  at  both,  right? So  to  start  off  with developing  this  relations, we  can  write  our  formula  dQ  by  T  for an  internally  reversible  process is  equal  to  d  d  S  there,  right? And  right?  We  evaluate  this,  right? We're  going  to  evaluate  the  integral  of this  when  we  know  the  relationship between  how  he  transferred  into  or  out  of  it affects  the  temperature  of the  control  volume  that  we're  analyzing. The  easy  case  that  we  did  before was  when  we  dealt  with  reservoir, so  that  temperature  didn't  change. And  then  that  was a  very  straightforward  integration. They're  essentially  Q  divided  by  t  was equal  to  the  Delta  S  there. If  this  temperature  varies with  time,  which  you  also  did, it's  more  complicated,  but  you  end  up  with a  more  complicated  thing. So  we  did  the  M  C  Delta  T  here, and  we  ended  up  with  an  M C  natural  log  of  T  two divided  by  T  one  with  it,  right? And  that's  what  we're  going to  build  on  now  is this  part  where  there  is a  varying  between  them,  right? So  from  First  law.  First  law. So  we  have  D  U  is  equal  to  Delta  Q internally  reversible  minus  Delta  W, so  work  internally  reversible. This  is  by  definition, what  I  wrote  there  D  TDS,  right? And  then  here,  this  is  P  d  PDV,  right? Or  you  can  rearrange  this, and  you  can  say  that  t  dS  is  equal to  dU  plus  P  dV. Is  there  a  question?  Great. Or  you  can  put  it  with  the letter  format  if  we  divided  by  M. You  can  write  t,  D  S  is  equal  to  D  U  plus P  D  V  there.  Yeah. So  we  call  this  as  you  see  in  the  textbook, they'll  call  this  the  TDS  relations. Or  if  you  read  online  and  look  it  up, this  is  sometimes  called the  Gibbs  Gibbs  equation. All  right.  Yeah.  So  good. Yeah.  And  so  what  I  have  here  in my  notes  is  I'm  saying  that  the  only  kind  of work  that  a  simple  compressible  system can  do  when  it's  internally reversible  is  boundary  work,  right? So  that  was  the  PDV  part  of  it. We  can  recall  the  definition  of  entop U  plus  P  PV  there. If  we  take  the  differential  of  this, a  DH  is  equal  to  D  U,  and  we  have  chain  law, so  that's  P  dV  p  V  dP  there,  right? And  I  feel  like  Yeah. So  I  have  this  TDS  is  equal  on  that. So  if  we  substitute, if  we  were  to  substitute into  there  our  formula. So  if  we  said  DU  and  P  dV,  right? So  we  could  write  that  as  dU  minus  V  DP is  equal  to  DH. Wait.  Let  me  get  this  right, DH  U. No.  Wrong. So  DU  plus  P  dV  is  equal  to  dH  minus  VDP. And  so  if  we  substitute  that  into our  TDS,  equation  there. So  if  we  replace  the  DUP  dV  in  that, we'll  replace  it  with  the  DH  minus  DP. So  TS  is  then  equal  to d  minus  V  VDP  there, right?  Right.  Yes.  Okay. Yes.  And  so  then  the  next  step of  this  is  we  can  just  divide  by  Delta T.  So  if  we  divide  by  T  here, you're  going  to  end  up  with  DH  by D  changes  in  entropy  are  then  changes  in p  divided  by  temperature  minus  V  dP over  over  T  there. All  right. And  for  the  ideal  gas,  right? We  can  recall  that  DH  is  equal  to  CP, dt  and  D  U  was  equal  to  CV,  CV,  DT, and  then  of  course, we  have  our  ideal  gas  law, which  is  that  our  PV  is  equal to  our  universal  temperature,  right? And  so  if  we  take  advantage  of those  formulas  here  and  we substitute  our  DS  then, so  our  DS  is  then  equal  to  CP, dt  divided  by  t  minus. Let  me  look  at  this  here  for  a  quick  second. DH.  DP.  Yeah,  so  then, No,  that  seems  right  that  is  enthalpy. Enthalpy  should  be  CP  DT  DT. For  some  reason,  I  have  CV  in  my  notes, but  with  this  substitution  here, this  is  what  makes  sense  to  me. All  right.  Is  there  a  question?  Yes,  please. Is  it  or  you  just  Yeah,  you're  exactly  right. That's  going  to  be  R.  Thank  you for  the  cash.  Another  comment? Yeah,  plus  one  in  the  column  there. Okay.  So  with  this, and  then  the  other  term  that  I  have  is a  V  D  by  T  here. V  t  by  P,  right? And  then  with  this,  I  have r  t  by  P  over  t,  right? So  here  the  ts  are  out, and  then  what  you're  left  with  is  Cp  dt  by t  minus  r  dp  by  P,  Yes,  ds. All  right?  Yeah.  That  I  miss  something? Who's  the  guy  checking  my  work? Lo  good?  All  right. Yeah,  so  that's  fine.  And  then  what  we  can do  is  the  integral. So  you  can  integrate  that. If  you  integrate  that,  you'll  have  S  two minus  S  one  is  then equal  to  the  integral  from  state one  to  two  of  the  CP, which  depends  on  temperature. DT.  Divided  by  t,  right? And  then  this  is minus  integral  from  state  one  to  two  of r  of  our  R  and dp  by  P.  This will  simply  become  R  natural  log, P  two  divided  by  P  one,  right? And  here,  I  mean, The  specific  heats,  as  I  mentioned  before, if  we  think  about  the  full  temperature  scale, like  zero  Calvin  up to  thousand  Kalvin,  right? It  depends.  It  definitely  depends on  temperature  for  a  lot of  the  problems  that  we  work  with, I  will  vary  with  temperature, but  it's  not  going  to  vary  by,  like,  100%. We're  talking  about  10%, you  know,  five,  10%  variation. What  the  textbook  will  tell  you  to do  is  for  this  integration, look  up  the  value  of the  specific  heat  at  state  one. Look  up  the  value  of  specific  heat  at state  two  and  take  their  average.  Alright? And  so  this  integration then  is  going  to  be  C. We're  calling  it  CP  average,  right? And  then  that's  times  the  natural  log  of  T two  divided  by  T  one,  T  one  there,  right? Exactly.  So  minus, right?  That  is  basically  minus. And  that's  your  S  two  minus your  S  one  there.  All  right? And  so  that's  our  first that's  our  first  relation  there. You  can  also  derive this  and  write  it  for  the  other  ones. So  the  other  ones  are  written  in  the  book. What  I  have  here  is C  V  average  to the  specific  heat  for  constant  volume, natural  log  of  T  two  divided  by  T  one. And  this  is  then  plus  plus  the  gas  constant L  N  V  two  divided by  V  one  there,  right?  All  right. So  the  difference  here  ominous stay  here.  S  two  and  S  one. The  difference  here  is  that  we're  dealing with  relations  of  here, temperature  and  pressure  ratios  here, temperature,  and  specific  volume  ratios. And  then  the  difference  is then  with  the  specific  heats that  that  you're  dealing  with. Alright. And,  yeah,  who  cares  about  that? So,  the  first  thing  is  that  You  can  look. And  so  now  what  these  relations, what  you  can  do  is  I  can  map, right  the  PV  diagram  that  I  showed you  before  of  some  cycle. So  here  the  RP  is  increasing,  right? I'm  putting  heat  in  at  a  high  temperature. Now  I  have  an  isotropic  process  here, increasing  volume. You  know,  they're  decreasing volume,  increasing  pressure. So  isothermal  compression, and  then  an  aioistically, an  adiabatic  compression  there. So  you  to  map,  right, the  things  that  were  familiar  to  us  before. Onto  the  now  the  TS  diagram  with these  with  these  relations. The  other  thing  you  can  do,  as  I  mentioned, the  main  utility  of  this  is  actually when  S  two  is  equal  to  S  one. That's  where  this  gets  powerful. So  if  we  talk  about  N  tropic, tropic  processes,  right? So  our  S  S, let's  say  our  S  two  and  our  S  ones  are  equal. We  can  start  to  rearrange  these  things and  and  have  relations  there. All  right. So  the  first  one,  the  first  one  is then  with  with  the  temperature. So  if  we  work  with or  let's  say  we  can  work  with  this  one. So  if  we  work  with  this  one  here, so  the  natural  log  then  of  T two  by  T  one  is  then  equal  to the  negative  of  r divided  by  C  V  natural  log  of  V  two  by  V  one. There.  And  the  other  way that  you  can  see  this  represented then  is  that  with  the  natural  log, you  can  then  put  this  just  simply to  the  exponents, that's  the  natural  log  of  one divided  by  v  two  because  the  negative  sign, and  then  it's  the  power  of  r  by  CV,  right? Alternatively,  you  can  write this  then  as  T  two  divided  by  T  one. I'm  writing  S  here  to  denote  that  it's a  constant  entropy  is  then equal  to  V  one  by  V  two, r  divided  by  C V.  Before  I  write  the  next  one, what  I  want  you  to  remember, and  I  apologize  to those  online  with  the  recording. Is  that  right,  R  is  equal to  C  P  minus  CV,  right? The  other  one  that  we  talk  about  is we  talk  about  the  ratio, the  adiabatic  index,  right? This  is  equal  to  CP  divided  by  CV. All  right?  So,  you  will  see  this. If  you  haven't  read  this  or seen  it  before,  this  APA. We  call  this  APA  here. This  is  the  ratio  of  the  CP  to  the  CV. I  think  for  Air,  it's  like  1.4. Yes,  please.  The  equations  here, it  has  to  do  with  this  term, plus  our  LN  ratio  of  pressures plus  our  L  N  ratio of  volume,  specific  volumes. So  it's  like  we  have temperature  pressure  and  volume,  right? Those  are  our  state  variables, and  we're  looking  for  ways  with isotropic  processes  to  be able  to  relate  them  to  each  other. Right? And  a  lot  of  times  what  we're  gonna  know is  let's  say  the  initial  temperature, the  initial  pressure,  and maybe  the  final  pressure, and  you  want  to  learn  T  two. And  you  can  use  this  to  determine  that  if you  assume  it's  isotropic.  Right? Great. So  now  with  this  definition  of  APA  there, we  can  also  write  this  then  as the  natural  log  of  V  one  by  V two  to  the  Natural  I'm  sorry, you're  in  natural  V  one  by  V  two  to the  APA  minus  one,  right? Yeah.  And  again,  the  last  one is  just  for  completeness. So  our  t  one  by  our  T two  divided  by  T  one  for  constant  rap  is then  equal  to  P  two  by  P one  to  the  APA  minus  one  divided  by  APA. And  then  our  last  relation at  the  risk  of  not  being  visible, or  maybe  I'll  write  it  here. Our  last  one  is  then  P  two. Divided  by  P  one,  for  constant  entropy  is equal  to  V  one  divided  by  V  two  to  the  APA. And  I'll  see  if  I  can  expand  this.  Let's  see. Fall.  Great.  Yeah.  That  should  be visible  then  for  those  who  watched  it  online. Okay.  Cool.  So  yes,  please. S  means  constant  entropy. So  what  I'm  using  here  is  like  the  notation you'd  have  for  a  partial  derivative, where  I  would  say, Okay,  here  that  and the  bottom  right  means  that that  variables  held  constant. I'm  using  that  notation  here. Okay.  Other  comments. Questions.  Flaws  in  my  math. No.  Okay.  Um  Yeah. So,  as  I  said,  we're  going  to  use  this  is strictly  for  definition  and  for  you  to  have, and  these  are  things  that  we'll  then  be using  later  on  than  when  we analyze  things  like  diesel,  auto  cycles. So  cycles  that  involve  a  gas,  you  know, basically  a  gas,  which we'll  treat  as  an  ideal  gas, and  we're  interested  in in  the  states  there,  right? Cool.  Good. Let  me  then. And  then  we  can  finish  with  one  example. I  have  one  example here  with  the  electronic  properties, where  I  then  compare  or  basically, I  then  compare  the  use  of formulas  like  this  to  what  you  would have  with  the  property  tables. All  right.  Let's  back. Cool. All  right. Cool.  So,  let's  see  what  this  looks  like. All  right. So  we're  looking  at  a  compressor  here. So  if  a  compressor,  which  means  that  we're starting  off  like  this. The  fluid  that  we're  working with  here  is  nitrogen. Again,  we're  working  with nitrogen  here  for  that. This  is  our  inlet.  This  is  our  outlet. All  right? We  have  some  work  that's being  transferred  in  to  do  that. We  see  here  that  our  inlet  pressure  is 110  KPA  is  equal  to  P  one, our  T  one,  T  one  is equal  to  30  degrees  C  there. And  the  information  that  we're  given  is  that the  outlet  pressure  P two  is  equal  to  682  KPA,  right? It's  adiabatic,  so  that  means  that there  is  no  heat. There's  no  heat  being  transferred  in  or out  of  this,  right? Just  as  I  mentioned  before, we  have  seen  this  before, but  for  this,  we  can  use The  air  electronic  air  property  table. So  the  first  part  of  this  is what  is  what  I  do. So  for  that,  we  can  determine that  the  enthalpy  at  this  state, H  one  is  equal  to 314  kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  again,  here  at  state  two, we  only  know  that  it's  P  two. But  if  we  assume  that  this  is  an  isotropic, which  is  what  I'm  telling  you  now, if  we  assume  that  this is  an  isotropic  compressor, then  here  S  two  is  going  to be  equal  to  S  one,  right? And  the  S  one  that  we  determined from  the  property  tables  is 6.8  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Kalvin,  right? Which  means  then  that's  our  S  two,  right? So  this  is  then  equal  to 6.8  kilojoules  per  kilogram. Calvin.  Well,  we  can get  out  of  this  by  knowing  this  pressure, and  this  and  this  entropy  is  our  H  two. So  our  H  two  is  equal  to 530  kilojoules  per  per  kilogram,  right? And  I'm  not  going  to  go through  the  long  process  of writing  out  the  energy  equation  here, but  it's  a  steady  process. We  have  work  transferred  out. We  have  the  differences of  the  enthalpies  coming  in. And  Exactly. So  then  in  this  case,  then, so  we  have  our  W  W  dot divided  by  m  dot  is  then  equal  to  state  two. So  this  is  H  two  minus  minus  the  H  one. And  according  to  this, what  I  have  is  215, 215  kilos  per  kilogram  as  the  value,  right? Now,  you  can  do  this  another  way. So  the  other  way  that  we  can  do  this, We  can  look  up  the  specific  heats, so  we  can  look  up  the  specific  heats at  state  one  in  State  two. So  the  CP  at  state  one  coming  in  is 1.04  kilo  jus  per  kilogram  Calvin, the  State  two,  let's  say,  entering  CP  two, so  at  the  exit  is  equal  to 1.06  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin. You  see  that's  not  a  huge  difference,  right? We're  talking  less  than  2%. We  can  do  the  same  then  for  the  CV. So  our  CV  at  stat  at  state  one  is then  0.743  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin, and  the  CV  two  is  then  equal  to 0.761  kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin. All  right?  And  we  can  average  these. So  you  can  basically  average these  two  values, and  which  you'll  have  is  then  1.05 kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin. And  then  here  you're  going  to  have  0.75 kilojoules  per  kilogram  Calvin,  right? We're  going  to  take the  adiobatic  index  with  this. So  if  we  take  the  ratio  of the  CP  average  by  the  CV, so  our  K,  here  is  going  to  be  the  CP  average. Here  we're  going  to  have  CV. Average.  This  value  then is  going  to  be  1.397, which  is  basically  1.4, h.  And  I  can  still  remember that  after,  I  don't  know, a  decade  and  a  half  since  I've taken  thermo  that  that's  what  it is  for  air  in  the  ideal  gases. So  now  that  we  know  that  we can  determine  the  temperature  two,  right? Cause  we  need  the  pressure,  we  need to  know  the  temperature  there. So  the  T  two  is then  equal  to  the  T  one from  our  TDS  relation. Sadly,  um  erase  that  there, but  that's  going  to  then  be  P two  divided  by  P  one to  the  power  of  APA  minus  one  divided  by  APA. So  again,  we  know  P  one,  we  know  P  two. We  know  T  one.  We  want  to  get  T  two. I  want  to  remind  you  that when  you  use  these  relations, you  need  to  work  in  Calvin. All  right?  If  you  ever  put a  T  one  of  zero  here, Celsius,  what  happens  to  T  two? Zero.  So  that's  stupid. So  that's  a  silly  thing. So  don't  do  that. And  then  at  this  point,  once  you  have now  the  T  two  determined, you  would  be  able  to  use the  air  property  tables to  then  determine  what  you  want. You  know,  the  P  two,  you  know,  the  T  two, you  can  basically  go  to your  tables  and  look  it  up. Here  I  look  it  up  for  you. If  you  were  to  go  through  and  actually run  through  these  calculations, I'll  share  this  book  with  you in  the  end  with  either  approach, you  end  up  with  an  error  between  them of  0.03%,  0.03,  right? Cool. So  with  that,  I'm  gonna  close. Sorry  for  the  disruption  with  that, and  with  the  math. And  I'm  up  here, if  you  have  any  questions about  Anything  for  the  course. Thank  you.
