Alright,  I  got  210.  I'm  going  to  get  started. So  today  we're  talking about  steady  flow  energy  analysis  again. So  far  we've  done  compressors  and  turbine. Today  we'll  work  on  throttling and  heat  exchangers,  if  time  permits, I'll  also  either  start  or  hopefully completely  finish  an  unsteady  flow  process that's  actually  relevant  for some  applications  in  research,  okay? Exactly.  So  we  can  start  with  this. So  we'll  look  at  this  system. This  is  does  anyone  know  what  this  is? Air  conditioner,  refrigerator. Yeah.  Essentially,  here, what  you  have  is a  compressor  that  takes  a  fluid, usually  a  refrigerant  transfers work  into  it,  right? Creates  a  higher  pressure  forces this  refrigerant  to  condense,  right? So  you  go  from  this  vapor  to  the  liquid. You  get  a  lot  of  heat, right,  that's  transferred  out  of  it. So  this  is  in the  fridge  right  in  the  back  of  it. You'll  see  typically  like  a  you  know, a  heat  exchanger  and  a  lot of  warmth  coming  off  of  it. Out  of  that,  then,  right, we  have  an  expansion  valve. So  this  is  something  that  goes  from very  high  pressure  to  low  pressure. Essentially,  you  get the  liquid  ready  to  evaporate, which  is  then  what  happens  in  the  evaporator. And  then  this  is  where  it  cools,  right? So  he  transferred,  for  example, into  a  fridge,  right, that  keeps  the  inside  of  it  cool. Or  if  it's  a  Right. An  air  conditioning  unit,  right? That's  when  you  would  pass  air  over to  then  cool  the  building  and  then  loop. Key  aspects  to  this system  in  solving  it,  right? We'll  go  through  this  today, but  essentially  heat  exchangers. For  the  purposes  of  this  class, we  assume  that  there's,  like, no  pressure  drop  across  them,  right? We  can  get  into,  you  know,  validity  of  that. But  essentially,  we  assume these  are  isobaric  devices. Right  the  compressor. We'll  analyze  some  of that  you  know,  a  bit  later. Again,  a  heat  exchanger. And  then  the  expansion  valve, what  we'll  get  into  is  that this  is  an  isenthalpic, an  isenthalpic  process. What  does  it  look  like? So  in  order  for  this  to  be an  isenthalpic  process,  it  means,  right, we  don't  have  any  heat  transfer, we  don't  have  any  work  transfer. So  work  transfer  is pretty  straightforward,  right? We  have  a  control  volume that  has  constant  volume, nothing  spinning  in  there  to  transfer  work. To  make  it  be  adiabatic, so  basically  no  heat  transfer, what  do  you  think  you  would  do? Insulated?  Insulated.  Yeah,  you basically  insulate  it  or  make  it  very  small. So  insulating  make  it  very  small, then  makes  it  do  that. So  these  are  typically  then,  like,  you  know, a  very  small  orifice  plate that  you  would  have  there  or  a  porous  plug. But  under  these  conditions, you  can  treat  the  process  as isomthalic,  okay? And  that  temperature  decrease effect,  if  you  want  to  read  about  that, that's  the  so  called  Jewel Thompson  Jewel  Thompson  effect. So  when  you  get  a  big  expansion, then  in  the  fluid,  there's a  corresponding  cooling  that  goes  with  it. Okay?  So  what  does  it  look  like  if you  were  to  try  to  represent this  on  a  diagrams? Remember  we  talked  before  about  All  right, PV  diagrams,  a  lot  of  PV  diagrams. For  air  conditioning  processes or  refrigerator  stuff  there, it's  also  common  to  see  this  represented  on a  so  called  pressure  pH  diagram  or pressure  enthalpy  diagram,  right? So,  this  would  be  like  the  entrance, you  know,  out  of  the  condenser,  right? So  you're  a  saturated  liquid at  some  higher  pressure, and  then  you  have  a  nice  enthalpic  process which  then  reduces  your  pressure, keeps  these  specific  enthalpy  constant, and  you  end  up  here,  right? So  you  go  from  essentially  being a  saturated  liquid  to something  that's  a  mixture,  right? So  you  get  it  there. Alright,  so  we'll  go  through that  example  of  what  that  looks  like. And  again,  this  is  only  then one  leg  of  what  otherwise  would be  what  otherwise  would  be  a  cycle, right,  a  cycle  there. So  the  refrigerator  we're  working with  in  this  is  R  134  A. Okay.  You'll  see  R  is  like  a  designation. R  just  means  refrigerant,  right? So  C  R  134  A.  Pi  color  can  handle  this. Your  book  tables  also  have this  tabulated  there,  okay? And  to  be  consistent with  the  notation  that  I  had  before, so  the  process  we  want  to  analyze is  this  three  to  four, which  we  call  as  throttling,  okay? Um,  right? So  that's  what  we're doing.  So  we  have  our  fluid. We're  looking  at  throttling. We  know  that  we  have  P  three  defined, and  we  also  have  X  three,  right? Let's  see.  So  based on  that,  right,  we  know  it. What  is  X  three, based  on  what  I  showed  you  there? Numerically  is  a  value. It  could  only  be  0-1. So  I  guess  that's  a  lot of  numbers  that  it  could  be, or  it  could  be  very  few. It's  not  one.  Zero.  Okay.  Why  is  it  zero? Saturated  liquid,  right? It's  a  saturated  liquid. It  comes  out  of  a  condenser. A  condenser  condenses,  right? And  so  you  basically  leave as  a  saturated  liquid  out  of  your  condenser. And,  you  have  this  P  three  as  a  pressure. This  P  three  is  equal  to  P  two because  that's  out  of  the  compressor,  right? So  there's  no  pressure  drop across  the  heat  exchanger,  right? So  with  this,  right, we  have  complete  information. We  know,  for  example,  H  three, but  we  would  also  know  T  three,  right? If  you  use  Pi  Klor  or  your  tables, right,  you  could  look  that  up. The  other  thing  that's given  in  this  problem  is we're  told  that  we  know  P  four. So  we  know  the  pressure that's  what  we  call  downstream, basically  after  the  device,  right? So  if  we  were  to  analyze  this, so  if  I  just  looked  only at  the  throttling  process. So  let's  say  I  have  something here  with  a  very  tiny  hole. This  is  then  let's  say upstream  in  state  three. Our  fluids  flowing  in  like  that. And  basically  downstream,  we  have um  basically  have  state  four,  okay? And  the  control  volume  that  we're interested  in  analyzing  here  is  then  around, right  around  this  throttling  device,  okay? Our  assumptions  that  we  had  before,  right, is  that  we  had  no  right? We  have  no  heat  transfer,  okay? We  call  it  adiabatic, and  there's  no  work  transfer,  right? So  we  have  no  work  transfer  here,  okay? And  it's  a  steady  flow  device, so  we  can  look  right our  two  conservation  equations, our  conservation  of  mass  and our  conservation  of  energy. So  this  is  our  CV  or  control  volume,  right? So  the  DM  CV, dt  is  equal  to  m.in  minus  Rm  dot  out. And  the  same  then for  the  change  in  the  energy of  our  control  volume  is  equal  to e.in  minus  R  E  dot  out. We're  going  to  assume  that  this  is  steady. Basically,  it's  a  steady, a  steady  flow  here. Okay,  so  it's  not  So  a  steady  flow. So  in  this  case,  right,  this is  going  to  be  going  to  zero, and  then  this  basically  goes  to  zero,  right? And  so  what  this  means  is  that  m.in, m.in  is  equal  to  M  dot  out, and  I'm  just  going  to  call  this as  dot,  right? And  this  implies  that  e.in is  equal  to  E  dot  out. So  what's  another  assumption you  think  we're  going  to  have  here? Before  I  start  writing  the  energy  equation. Exactly.  So  we're  going  to  be neglecting  neglect,  KE  and  PE. So  we're  going  to  neglect kinetic  and  potential  energies,  right? So  if  we  write  our  energy  equation,  right? So  building  on  that,  so  our  e.in, so  the  ways  that  we  can transfer  energy  in,  right? We're  going  to  have  W  in  plus  q.in  plus  m.in, which  I'm  just  going  to  call  as  m  dot,  right? And  then  this  would  be  times,  in  our  case, H  three  plus,  right, we'd  have  W  three,  which  is our  velocity  squared  by  two. Plus  GZ  three,  and  that's  equal to  our  W  dot  out  plus  Q dot  out  plus  dot times  H  four  plus W  four  squared  divided  by  two, again,  velocity  plus  G, which  is  the  acceleration  due  to  gravity, Z  four  there,  okay? So  we're  neglecting kinetic  and  potential  energies. SC,  sac,  sac,  sac,  gone. We  said  it  was  adiabatic,  gone,  gone. And  we  said  no  work  transfer,  gone  and  gone. Okay?  All  right. And  these  m.in  and  the  M dot  out  are  both  dots. So  that  means  that  gone  and  gone.  All  right? So  from  this,  what  you  see  is  that  H three  is  equal  to  H  four,  all  right? Ice,  fall,  big,  okay? And  isobaric,  isothermal. Here's  another  ISO,  okay? I  think  there's  also  a  defense  that's  ISO. I  don't  know  how  that  works,  though. All  right? Cool.  All  right,  that's  basketball. Yeah,  exactly.  You  go  ISO  on  someone. Alright,  so  basically  a  three  is  a  four, and  that's  your  omthopic. And  we  can  use  this,  right? So  if  we  look  at  our  Right, if  we  look  at  the  board  here,  right? So  we  know  our  upstream  condition. We  knew  P  four, but  we  needed  one  other  piece  of information  to determine  the  downstream  state, okay? And  so  by  knowing  that  H  three  is  H  four, our  state  four  Right? We  now  know  our  P, we  basically  know  P  four, and  we  now  know  that  H  four is  equal  to  H  three,  right? So  essentially  from  this, right,  we  have  complete  information. We  can  then  determine  things like  T  four,  right? T  four  there,  okay, which  is  what  we're  interested  in. Remember  what  I  said  to  the whole  point  of,  um, right  of  this  device  here  is  that  we  want to  get  this  thing  ready  to evaporate  right  at  a  cold  temperature. So  through  this  throttling  process, we're  able  to  drop  the  temperature. So  again,  by  having  this  date  with  T  four, right, we're  going  to  determine,  right,  essentially, Delta  T  is  then  equal  to  our  T three  minus  R  T  four. Okay.  Great.  What  else? Um  Yes. So  just  to  give  you  some  values  that  we  have. I  mean,  I  know  you  can  see  it's roughly  on  the  board  here. But  I'm  going  just  write  this  as  state  one. So  with  our  state  one, What  I  have  is  I  have  P  one  here, which  is  equal  to  0.14  MPA,  okay? And  I  have  a  Oh, I'm  sorry,  I  don't  want  T  one. Apologies.  I  don't  want  T  one. What  I  want  is  give  me  a  second. Apologies.  I  want  state  three,  right? So  for  our  state  three, S  three  pressure  for,  like, basically  these  pretty realistic  operating  conditions, we  have  0.8  MPA. That's  about  eight  times atmospheric  pressure. Eight  bar  and,  you  know,  there. So  that's  basically a  pretty  reasonable  pressure. And  then,  as  I  mentioned  before,  X  three, as  you  all  pointed  out, was  then  equal  to  zero. So  those  are  values  that  we  had. The  P  four  that  we  have  here. So  the  pressure  drop that  you  experience  across the  throttling  device  is  then  0.15  MPA. Okay,  so  about  1.5 times  atmospheric  pressure.  All  right. A  typical  flow  rate  that's  then  given  here, which  is  also  given  into  the  problem is  that  we  have  an  M  dot  here. So  this  M  dot  get  rid  of  that. So  the  M  dot  that  we  have  here  is equal  to  0.05  kilograms/second. Remember,  the  MDOT  in  is  the  M  dot  out  is the  M  dot,  there,  okay? And  so  if  we  use  all  of this  and  we  determine  our  states, what  you'll  have  is  then  a  Delta  T  here. So  a  cooling,  pretty  significant  cooling  of about  48  degrees  Kelvin, right,  which  is  also  because it's  a  Delta,  right? It's  48  degrees  Celsius,  right? That's  how  much  of  a  temperature change  you're  going  to  have  from this  state  here  down  to this  state  this  state  here,  okay? Because  we  have  complete  information, we  can  also  determine  things like  specific  volume,  right? So  we  can  have  V  three  here, and  we  can  have  V  four,  okay? And  so  if  we  go  then  with  the  Delta  V  as being  V  three  minus  RV  four, this  is  then  going  to  be  equal to  a  negative  0.040 9  meters  cubed  per  kilogram. Why  is  it  negative? It's  Yes,  please.  Okay? Decreases. So  it  decreases,  but  what  decreases? Yeah,  so  your  specific  vome, what  does  it  mean? Are  you  more  like a  liquid  or  you're  more  like a  vapor  when  the  Delta  V  is  negative. You're  more  like  a  vapor,  right? You're  basically,  again,  you're  getting ready  to  evaporate. And  that  also  makes  sense  because if  you  were  to  analyze  the  process  here, we  end  up  somewhere  below  the  dome,  right? So  you're  intermediate  between, you  know,  you're  no longer  just  a  liquid,  right? You're  somewhere  between  the  liquid and  the  vapor  and  the  liquid. And  when  you're  a  vapor,  you  have a  higher  specific  volume than  when  you're  a  liquid,  okay? All  right?  We  can  also  look at  the  pressure  drops. I  mean,  obviously,  we  have  we  would  know that  from  the  beginning  because  it  was  given. But  yeah,  you're  going  to  have something  like  a  seven  bar, seven  bar  of  a  pressure  drop. And  you  can  also  compare.  It's  instructive. If  you  go  back  and  look  at the  definition  of  enthalpy and  actually  what's  going  on  here. It's  instructive  to  look  at  the  difference in  internal  energy,  right? So  U  three,  um,  minus  U  four, and  that's  equal  to  5.587 kilojoules  per  kilogram,  right? So  if  we  think  about  enthalpy, so  the  enthalpy  doesn't  change. Enthalpy  is  by  definition, U  plus  is  enthalpy  is  U  plus, um,  uh,  PV,  right? So  here,  it  says  to  be  a  constant  value. So  here  what  I'm  telling  you,  is  that  right, the  internal  energy  at  State four  is  essentially  less, right,  than  the  internal  energy at  State  three,  okay? And  so  what  do  you think  is  the  consequence  of  that? If  I  have  less  internal energy  downstream  than  I  have  upstream, what  do  you  think  a  consequence  of  that  is? Temperature,  right?  So  the  whole  point is  that  that's  where  you  see  it,  right? Because,  you  know,  the  P,  right? So  downstream,  the  pressure  goes  down. The  specific  volume  is  basically  going  up. But  the  net  effect here  is  that  the  internal  energy  is  down, right? All  of  these  things  work  together  to keep  this  as  a  constant  value. But  the  thing  you  care  about  is  that the  internal  energy,  essentially, you  know,  the  temperature, as  you  see  it  here, decreases  when  you  drop across  that  device,  okay? So  it's  a  humble  device, but  it's  an  important  device,  okay? Right?  50%  of  the  electricity  consumption in  this  country  looks  like  that  in the  summer,  right? Okay.  Yes,  please? So  it's  interesting.  Where  do  you see  on  this  device the  temperature  being  raised? And  so  my  reply  would  be  a  question. What's  one  way  that  you  think  that could  happen  through  a  valve? I  mean,  one  way  is you  just  have  a  lot  of  friction,  right? If  I  want  to  warm  something  up,  that's pretty  easy  Actually  what's  much  more challenging  usually  is  to  cool something  down.  Other  questions? All  clear?  Great.  I  love  the  thumbs  up. I  appreciate  feedback  from  the  crowd. Okay.  Yeah,  so we're  going  to  do  a  lot  more  with  this. We'll  get  more  into  that. If  you  want  to  see  what  throttling looks  like,  this  is  like  a  video. So  in  this  experiment, what  you're  going  to  see  is  upstream, I  have  very  high  pressure. I  have  a  high  pressure  refrigerant. This  refrigerant  is  not  R  134  A. This  refrigerant  is  carbon  dioxide,  okay? And  what  I'm  doing  is  I  have  a  very  tiny, hole  in  it's  orifice  plate,  right? Like  I  mentioned  here,  it's  a  couple  of millimeters  or  a  millimeter  or  so, I  think,  in  diameter. And  then  to  the  right  here, this  is  open  air,  right? So  basically  low  pressure  is about  1  bar,  okay? So  I  have  something  that's  like,  you  know, 40  or  50  times  atmospheric  pressure going  to  something  that's  like  one, you  know, which  is  basically  atmospheric  pressure. And  what  you'll  see,  right, is  essentially  you  get  like a  condensed  phase  that's  there,  okay? And  it's  very  cold,  right? So  if  you  put  basically a  thermocouple  in  there, it  would  be  very  cold.  Um,  Yeah. Has  anyone  ever  seen an  experiment  like  that  done  before? Have  you  ever  seen  a  fire  extinguisher? That's  what  it  is,  right? A  fire  extinguisher  is  the  same  principle. I  have  high  pressure  carbon  dioxide that's  there  in  the  bottle, and  I  relieve  it,  right? So  I  get  a  big  cooling  effect  that  expansion, so  called  Jewel  Thompson  effect  there. So  it  lowers  the  temperature  a  lot. And  for  the  case  of  the  fire, and  it  lowers  it  really  a  lot. Like  the  temperature  here, you  see  this  frost. Like  this  is  so cold  that  I  have,  like,  you  know, very  thick  layer  of  ice  that's  forming  on  it. This  will  basically  go  down  to,  like, -70  Celsius, which  is  essentially the  temperature  of  dry  ice. That's  also  why  you  never  pick  up  dry  ice with  your  hands  because  you  will  burn. I  mean,  it  will  not  feel very  pleasant  to  you. So,  this  can  basically  get  very,  very  cold, so  that  can  help  with,  you  know, from  a  temperature  effect of  putting  a  fire  out. But  the  second  part  is,  obviously,  you  just extinguish  you  suffocate,  right? Don't  allow  any  oxygen  to  go  to  it,  okay? Cool.  All  right,  so  that's  throttling. Continuing  with  the  device  that  I  presented. What  I  want  to  go  through  now  is the  heat  exchanger  component  of  the  device. Not  exactly  the  same  conditions, as  I  said,  for running  the  refrigeration  cycle, but  it's  going  to  be  helpful. I'm  going  to  show  you  some  of  the  tips and  tricks  then  that  we  use then  for  analyzing  a  heat  exchanger. Let  me  just  erase  the  board. Okay. Cool.  So  what  do  we  have? So  we  have  here,  R  134  A,  again, which  is  a  common  refrigerant. We're  entering,  right? So  we  have  R  134  A  again,  134  A. We  have  an  M  dot  of  R  134  A, R  134  A,  which  is equal  to  6  kilograms/minute. Um  It  enters  as  a  vapor. So  when  we  look  at  the  R  134, I  think  we'll  wait  for the  properties  in  a  second. We  we  neglect  pressure  drops  in  that. Let's  start  talking  about  some  states. So  if  I  have  state  three as  it's  defined  here,  okay? One  piece  of  information  that I  see  with  state  three. So  it  enters  as  a  vapor. Vapor,  but  it  doesn't  say  saturated  vapor. And  the  other  part  that  I see  here  is  for  state  three, I'm  giving  two  pieces  of  information. So  I  can  put  this in  and  determine  properties. The  thing  you  need  to  check,  right, when  you  do  that  analysis  is  that  this is  actually  a  vapor,  right? You  can  see  what  type  of  vapor that  that  it  is. If  it's  a  superheated  vapor, this  is  enough  information. It  could  also  be  with  these  conditions  that it's  also  a  saturated  vapor. What  I'm  going  to assume  based  on  this  is  that it's  a  superheated  vapor. So  we  have  a  T  there,  T  three, which  is  70  degrees  C, and  I  have  a  P  three,  which  is  then equal  to  1  megapascal. Okay?  All  right.  And  presumably  with  this, we  have  subject  to  verification,  right? We  have  basically  enthal  P three,  which  we  care  about. Okay?  Now  we  exit,  right? We  exit  from  here  to  state  four. All  right.  And  in  state  four, we're  only  given  the  temperature. So  we  have  T  four,  which  is  35  degrees C.  And  what  we're told  is  that  it's  sub  cooled. So  basically,  we're  told  sub cooled  um  liquid. What  do  you  think  we  do  here?  What  would be  like  your  first  reaction? I'm  told  this  temperature and  I'm  told  subcooled  liquid, what  would  you  do  with this  information  if  you wanted  to  get  a  property? X  equals  zero,  right?  Yeah. So  essentially,  for  now, we'll  start  with  and  say  X  four is  equal  to  zero,  okay? All  right,  so, essentially  what  you're  saying  is  that the  properties  of  the  liquid when  it's  sub  cooled  to  this are  not  very  different  to the  state  when  it's a  saturated  liquid,  right? And  if  you  read  the  textbook,  old  school, like  if  you  went  to  the  tables the  property  tables  in  a  book, this  information  would  normally not  be  given,  right? You  would  not  have subcooled  liquid  properties, which  you'd  be  given  as  essentially a  saturated  liquid. What  is  the  other  thing  that  I said  about  a  heat  exchanger,  though? At  the  beginning.  What  property doesn't  change  across  the  heat exchanger  in  this  class? Pressure,  right?  So  the  other  way  to look  at  this  would  just  be  to  say, so  that's  an  approximation. Another  way  to  look  at  this  is to  say  that  I'm  going  to  go  with my  pressure  and  say  that  P four  is  equal  then to  P  three.  And  it  is  instructive. I  won't  do  it  now,  but  it's instructive  for  you  to  compare  the  values when  you  do  T four  and  X  four  equals  zero  and  determine H  four  or  to  do  T  four  and P  four  equals  to  P three  and  also  determine  an  H  four,  okay? What  you  see  is  that  they're not  that  different,  okay? All  right.  That's  very  good. So  we  have  this  with  State  three. We  basically  have  two  approaches when  we  look  at State  four  and  on an  exam  or  something  like  that. Again,  as  long  as  you  justify  for  me, I  thought  this,  I  did  this, that's  perfectly  acceptable,  okay? So  if  you  look  at  this  and  you  make a  judgment  call  that  this  is  the  right  way, do  that,  but  write  that,  okay? Give  me  a  reason.  All  right. So  those  are  State  three  and  State  four. I'm  pretty  sure  we  have  that done  also  with  the  mass  flow  rate. I  feel  pretty  comfortable  with  that. We're  going  to  be  able  with that  to  determine  then  the  heat transferred  out  of  the  refrigerant. Let's  focus  for  a  second  now  at state  at  state  one. So  if  we  go  to  state  One  here. All  right.  So  we  have  water. That's  at  T  one  and  equal to  15  degrees  Celsius. And  we're  told  that  P  one  is  equal  to 300  pa  so  three  times  atmospheric  pressure. And  then  at  state.  And  so  with  this, it's  very  likely  there is  a  pretty  high  pressure. It's  a  pretty  low  temperature. With  this,  you're  going to  be  able  to  have  H  one. It's  going  to  be  like a  subcooled  liquid  there. You're  going  to  be  able  to  get  H  one. And  then  for  state  two,  All  right, State  two.  All  right. What  we  have  there  is  we  have  T  two  is  equal to  25  degrees C.  And  what's  the  other  property? Pressure.  Pressure  is  what? Thank  you,  Kai.  Okay.  So  then P  two  is  then  equal  to  P  one, which  is  equal  to  300  pa.  All  right. P  two,  P  two. Let  me  just  check  my  assumptions here.  Yeah,  so  this  is  good. I  have  that.  You  have  T  two, right?  So  that's  getting  warmer. That  makes  sense.  So  this  all looks  good  to  me. Let  me  just  check  on  my  refrigeration  side. T  three,  which  was  70,  P  three, which  is  one  MPA,  T  four.  Yeah.  So  in  my. So  again,  this  is one  way  that  you  can  do  it  in  my, um,  In  my  solution that  you  can  launch  from  there, I've  gone  this  way,  right? So  I've  assumed  that  it's  isoberic. So  the  pressure  three that's  given  is  equal  to  pressure  four, and  I've  gone  with  T  four to  determine  H  four. If  you  want  to  do  it  old  school, and  by  the  book,  you  have to  remember  this  trick,  right? So  this  is  book,  okay? And  then  this  is  Pi  Klor,  okay. All  right,  so  we  got  a  handle on  the  states  now,  right? So  from  this,  right, I'm  going  to  be  able  to  have  H  two. And  so  what  we've got  to  know  is  we  want  to  know the  mass  flow  rate  of the  cooling  water  and the  heat  transfer  rate  from the  refrigerant  to  the  water,  all  right? So  now,  again,  I'm  not  going  to,  you  know, what  I  have  drawn  there  in the  control  volume  is right,  the  entire  thing. What  I'd  like  to  do  at  the  moment now  is  to  break  that  down into  two  separate  control volumes,  which  I'll  do. So  let  me  do  my  best to  draw  a  serpentine  pipe. Okay.  That's  horrible. Okay.  All  right. So,  so  into  the  pipe  here, we  have  state  three  coming  in. We  have  State  four  exiting, and  I'm  drawing  my  control  volume  exactly around  the  pipe.  All  right. Okay. Let's  call  this,  for  example,  CV  34,  okay? All  right,  CV  34 corresponding  to  the  states,  right? We  can  write  our  conservation  equations, right? So  the  rate  of  change  of  mass  in CV  34  dt  is  equal  to m.in  minus  M  dot  out  of  CV  34.  Okay. We're  going  to  assume,  right, this  is  a  steady  flow  device. So  if  we  assume  it's  a  steady  flow,  well, we  can  call  then.in  of CV  34  is  equal  to  M  dot  out  of  CV  34. And  what  I  would  like  to call  that  is  just  m.r1, three,  four,  A,  okay? So  we're  good  there,  right? Now  we're  going  to  write  our  energy  equation, the  same  thing,  right? So  D  E,  CV,  three,  four, dt  is  equal  to  e.in  minus  E  dot  out  of  CV  34. Steady  flow.  This  is  gone,  right? So  what  comes  in  here  is  to equal  to  what  exits,  okay? Um,  So  we  can  write  that. So  what  enters  energy can  be  carried  in  from  work,  right? So  I  can  have  w  dot  plus  q.in  plus  dot,  um, dot  R  one,  three, four  A  times  three  plus w  squared  divided  by  two  plus  G  three, and  that's  equal  to  W  dot  out. Okay,  plus  Q  dot  out  plus.r1 34ah  four  plus  velocity four  squared  divided  by two  plus  the  potential  energy at  state  four,  right? Okay,  what  are  we  going  to  neglect  here? Neglect  KE  and  PE. So  this  means  gone, gone,  gone,  and  gone. All  right.  One.  What  about  work? Do  you  see  anything  spinning? No,  right?  So  there's no  work  transfer  here,  no  work. Okay.  Well,  yeah,  no  shaft  work  here, right?  So  we  have  no  shaft. Let  me  see  there  no  shaft  work. All  right.  All  right. So  these  are  gone.  And  what  about  heat? Do  we  have  any  heat  transferred  in  or  heat transferred  out  3-4?  Loud. N  and  loud  here. This  side  of  the  room. Someone  not  named  Kai?  Okay. Cody. If  you  transfer  it  out,  right? So  basically,  we  don't  have  it  in, and  we  have  it  out  right  because the  temperature  is  lower,  right? So  we  can  do  then  from  this  is  we can  determine  that  our  Q  dot  out,  right? So  the  heat  transfer  rate  from the  refrigerant  to  the  water  then  here. So  Q  dot  out  is  equal  to  m.r1  34  A, which  is  given  times  H  three, which  we  know  minus  H  four,  okay? So  basically  we've  answered part  B  already  there. So  this  is  good.  So  answer  Good.  All  right. All  right,  now  let's  draw our  control  volume  in  for  our  water. So  if  we  look  at  the  water, okay.  There's  the  water. Okay,  I  have  it  coming  in  here, right?  And  out  here. So  this  is  state  state  one  here. We  have  state  two  here. Let's  draw  control  volume. So  here's  the  control  volume  that I  am  going  to attempt  to  draw  because it's  going  to  get  complicated. So  the  other  point  is  that  I  have  this  pipe, this  serpentine  pipe,  which  is  right. Okay,  which  is  going  there. And  so  when  I  draw  this  control  volume, I  want  to  draw  around  this  pipe,  right? I  only  want  to  have  the  parts  that are  that  are  water  there,  okay? Difficult  to  represent  in  two  dimensions. This  is  kind  of  a  mess,  okay? So,  you  know,  basically, everything  but  the  pipe  here  is  what  I'm drawing  the  control  volume  of. Right?  The  same  thing,  right? So  conservation  of  mass,  it's  steady. So  we  have,  right, m.in  is  equal  to  M  dot  out. Rate  of  h2o. Or  let's  say  we  can  call this  then  as  CV  12  to  be  consistent. So  CV  one,  two,  CV  12. And  what  I  would  like  to  just  call this  is  maybe.h2o,  right? So  that's  the  mass  flow  rate  of the  cooling  water,  which is  what  we're  trying  to  determine. So  that's  one  conservation  of  energy,  right? So  we  neglect  kinetic  and  potential  energies. We  have  no  work  transfer. So  what  we'll  have  then  is  for the  energy  transferred  in,  right? So  we'll  have  q.in  plus.h2o. What's  the  inlet?  The  inlet  is  H  one. Okay,  and  that's  equal  to  It's  Q  dot, Q  dot  out  plus  m  dot  O. All  right.  And  then  that's the  enthalpy  that's  leaving, right?  That's  two,  right? So  I  don't  have  work,  no  kinetic, no  potential  energy. And  now  we  have  to  deal  with  the  heat. So  do  we  have  q.in  or  Q  dot  out  here? Say  it  again.  Q.in  your  name? Had  Hayden,  q.in,  right? So  we  don't  have  Q  dot  out. We  have  heap  transferred that  makes  sense,  right? The  water  is  leaving  hotter  than  here. What's  the  other  assumption for  this  whole  analysis  to  work? What's  the  other  assumption  I  have  to make  about  my  water  control  volume? So  I'm  saying  that  there's  q.in,  right? But  q.in  could  come  from  the  refrigerant, but  it  could  also  come from  the  environment,  right? So  what's  the  other  assumption I  need  to  make? It's  insulated. Basically  it's  adiabatic,  right? So  basically  on  the  outside  of  this,  right? So  we  assume  that  this  is, this  is  basically  an  insulated thermally  insulated  there,  okay? So  we  do  have  q.in,  but it's  not  from  the  surroundings,  right? So  it's  coming  in  from  from  that. So  we  have  q.in  then  is  equal  to m.h2o  times  the  enthalpy at  state  two  minus  the  enthalpy at  state  one,  okay? All  right.  So  if  I  want  to get  to  so  I  know  H  two, I  know  one,  okay? I  want  to  find  dot  HO. I  don't  know  q.in. I  do  know  all  of  this,  right? So  I  know  Q  dot  out. What  is,  like,  a  matching criteria  you  think  has  to happen  for  this  system  to  work?  Q  plus. That's  it,  right? So  basically,  the  q.in, which  I'll  make  it  clear. I'll  call  this  as  q.in  h2o, must  be  equal  to  the  Q  dot out  of  RR  134  A,  right? They  what  we  would  call,  what I  call  this  CV  one,  two, right,  is  equal  to  then,  right, the  CV  34,  okay? So  there's  no  energy exchange  with  the  environment. There's  only  energy  exchange that's  happening  within  it, heat  exchanger.  All  right? So  the  heat  is  exchanged  then. If  it's  done  right,  then  within  it. Okay. That's  very  good. So  if  we  set these  things  equal  to  each  other, so  I'll  have.h2o  is  equal  to  I'm  sorry. So,  sorry,  sorry.  M.h2o  times  H two  minus  H  one  is  equal  to  m.r1  34  a. And  that's  times.  So  where's  our  thing, H  three,  minus  R  H  four, just  do  a  sanity  check. So  the  cooling  water  should be  hotter  leaving,  right? So  that  enthalpy  should be  greater  than  the  inlet. And  the  R  34  A is  entering  hot  and  getting  colder,  right? So  this  enthalpy  entering will  be  greater  than  that. Both  these  things  then  are  positive  values. And  so  if  we  divide  both  sides by  H  two  minus  H  one, we're  going  to  have.h2o  is  equal to.r1  34  a,  okay? And  that's  times  H  three, minus  H  four,  and  that's divided  by  H  two  minus  H  one,  okay? And  then  that's  the  other formula  that  we  need,  right? And  we  know  all  this  information. We  know  one,  two,  three, four,  and  the  dot  is  given,  okay? If  you  want  some  numbers  to  put  into  this, so  for  our  Q  dot  out, so  essentially  the  heat transfer  rate  from the  refrigerant  to  the  water. If  we  substitute  our  values  here, I  have  21.3  kilowatts. That's  a  pretty  substantial  chiller. So  a  20  kilowatt  chiller  is  like, Yeah,  well,  it's  like  a  $20,000 chiller.  It's  a  nice  chiller. Okay.  So  you  have  you'd  have  that. That,  of  course,  would  be  equal, right  to  the  q.in,  right,  that  we  had. The  mass  flow  rate  of  the  water, if  you  substitute  your  numbers, I  have  here  as  0.49 basically  0.49  kilograms/second,  okay? Good.  Yes,  kilograms  per  minute. 1  minute  is  60. Yeah.  And  one  thing  that's  kind of  instructive  here  to  compare is  actually  the  values  between  this. So  the  MO  134ar  134  a, we  said  was  equal  to  what? Six  kilg  per  minute, 1  minute  and  60  seconds. So  what  do  I  have  here?  0.01  kilogram/second. I  So  what's  interesting  about this  is  that  the  enthalpy  change,  right? So  these  things  have  to  be  equal,  right? So  the  MDOT  times  the  enthalpy  change  in the  refrigerant  is  the  M  dot  times the  enthalpy  change  in  the  water. And  an  interesting  feature  about phase  change  processes  is the  enthalpy  changes  are  massive,  right? So  we  go  from  these  liquids  to  these  vapors. We  have  very  big  changes,  and that's  the  whole  of  them,  right? So  the  whole  point  of a  a  vapor  compression  cycle in  a  refrigerator  is  that  you condense  a  liquid  and  you  boil  a  liquid, and  the  process  of  going  from  one  to  the other  has  a  huge  change  in  enthalpy. It  has  a  lot  of  capacity  to  absorb  heat, so  you  don't  need  to  pump  a  lot  of  it,  right? On  the  other  hand, something  like  liquid  water,  right, which  we  use  a  lot  of  for  cooling  in  systems, because  it's  not  boiling  or  evaporating, this  is  only  sensible  heat  transfer. You're  not  going  to  have a  very  large  enthalpy  difference. So  it  means  you  got  to  crank  up the  mass  floor  and  a  lot  more  to match  the  heat  transfer  rate that  you're  going  to  have  from the  refrigeration  side,  right? Um,  If  you  think  about, like  an  actual  refrigerator, the  way  that  you  get  this  balance  is  a  lot  of times  it's  now  with  an  MDOT  of  water, and  it's  natural  convection  of  air. And  so  what  you  end  up really  needing  is  actually  very  large. Maybe  this  section  where  you  pump, the  fluid  is  small, but  if  you  look  in  the  back  of  them, you're  going  to  see  big,  like,  radiators or  a  lot  of  metal  that's  on there  to  kind  of  enhance  the  area such  that  you  can  get  a  balance,  okay? All  clear?  That's  heat  exchangers. Another  thumbs  up.  Awesome. Okay.  So  I  have  8  minutes. I  think  I'm  doing  it  off  notes  today. With  notes.  Okay.  So  the  last  one  I  want to  get  into  then  and  look at  is  a  bit  of  this  unsteady. So  this  might  be  a  moment  where  I  would  say, like  We're  not  going  to  do  a  lot  of practically  probably  any  unsteady flow  processes  in  the  course. But  it  is  interesting,  and  I'll  show  you  one, you  know,  application  of  this. So  one  is,  like,  here  they  show sort  of  charging  of  a  tank. I  mean,  one  of  the  ones  that's,  like, most  relevant  is  pump  hydro,  right? So  if  you  think  about  pump  hydro  and  you want  to  store  something  kind of  like  a  battery,  right? You're  going  to  be  pumping  some  fluid, storing  that  as  like  a potential  energy  and  then  bringing  it  back. That's  like  one,  one  example  of  that. Here  they  have  things  like  charging  a  tank, In  addition  to,  like,  pumped hydro,  another  common  way  of, like,  renewable  energy  storage is  essentially  this  process, but  imagine  like  a  cavern  underground,  right? So  I  have  my  renewable. I  then  take  that  air,  I compress  the  heck  out  of  it  in a  huge  geological  feature underground,  compress  that, and  then  later  on,  I  take  that, and  let's  say  I  run  a  turbine or  something  liquid. So  these  are  kind  of  examples of  unsteady  flow  processes. The  way  that  we  do  this,  right? So  I'll  erase  this is  the  same  as we  did  the  other  things,  right? We  have  our  conservation  of  mass,  okay, and  we  have  our  conservation of  energy,  right? So  it's  pretty  much  the  same  thing, but  I'll  show  you kind  of  one  important  difference of  these  devices  compared to  the  way  we  were  solving steady  steady  flow  devices. And  then  I'll  hopefully  finish with  at  least  getting started  with  an  example. Mm,  do  do,  do, do.  Okay. All  right,  right.  So  again,  we  have  this. Let's  say,  you  know, we  have  our  system  there. Okay.  Um,  Let's  say,  you  know, we  have  some  piston  cylinder  type  device, but  with  an  opening,  okay? So  this  thing  is  kind of  like  free  to  move  up  or  down. We  have  the  control  volume  here, where  we  can  bring  mass  now  in  or  out. So  that's  kind  of  like  our  piston  cylinder, but  now  we  can  bring  mass in  from  one  direction,  right? So  let's  say  here,  we're  dealing  with some  amount  of  mass  from the  inlet  that's  coming  in. Okay?  We  can  define  an  initial  state, which  is  then  M  M  one. So  we  have  M  one  of  this  control  volume, and  then  we  have  a  final  state,  which  would be  basically  M  two,  right? So  you're  going  to  have  some  change  of  mass. Um,  you  know,  in  this  control  volume, and  that's  going  to  be  equal,  you  know, just  like  our  thermal  accounting, the  mass  that  comes  from  the  inlet minus  the  mass  from  the  exit,  okay? So  that's  basically  our  conservation  of  mass. Of  course,  for  this  problem, we  don't  have  any, we  don't  have  any  exiting. If  we  look  at  the  change  in  the  energy, so  the  change  in the  energy  of  our  system  here. So  the  E  let's  say,  uh,  you  know, let's  say  E  Delta  E,  Right, CV  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  energy  that  enters minus  the  energy  that  exits. Okay?  The  way  that  this  can  enter  is  just like  we  had,  right  before. So  you  can  have  you  know, W  in  plus  our  Q  in  plus, you  know,  M  in,  right? So  this  could  be  M  in  that  M  can  carry some,  some  enthalpy,  right? That  could  carry  some  kinetic  energy,  right? And  that  could  also  come  in  from  a  height. Okay.  So  does  that  look, that  looks  basically  right. And  then  plus  a  negative,  the  out,  right? W  out.  Plus,  you  know, Q  out  plus,  you  know, out  times  the  enthalpy  out, plus  the  velocity  out  squared  divided  by two  plus  G,  Z  out,  right? This  is  a  minus  sign.  Okay. Um,  you  know,  and  again,  the  book,  right? The  book  tries  to  sometimes make  things  more  convenient. So  this  enthalpy  plus kinetic  energy  plus  potential  energy. The  book  we'll  call,  right,  as  Theta. So  you  can  call  this  basically  a  Theta in  if  you  wanted  to, and  then  basically  the  same  thing  here  as a  Theta  as  a  Theta  out,  right?  Okay. Um,  So  what  makes  this  kind  of  impractical, okay,  is  that  right? I  just  spent  all  this  time  talking about  steady  flow  devices. The  steady  flow  devices dealt  with  rates  of  something. So  I  have  a  rate  of,  right, something  that's  coming  in  and  coming  out. Um,  right? And  that's  convenient.  In  this  case, I  don't  have  anything  with  rates. So  I  look  at  this, and  I  say,  okay,  there's  some  final  state, maybe  it's  totally  discharged is  the  final  state. Or  let's  say  something that's  totally  discharged  the  initial  state, and  then  I  charge  it  and  it's  fully  primed. So  I  guess  you  could  go  in  and  do  that. And  you  could  look  at these  things  and  say,  Okay, that's  how  much  mass  changed, and  that's  how  much  energy in  the  control  volume  changed. Um,  For,  like,  real  systems,  though,  like, the  rate  that  I  want  to  bring  mass  in  will probably  depend  on  how pressurized  this  is,  right? So  if  I  have  a  device  here that  can  probably  get something  to  a  pressure. As  I  fill  this  more, the  rate  that  I  fill  it  will probably  be  less,  right? So  you'll  probably  end  up  having something,  you  know,  asymptotic. And  analyzing  and  figuring  out those  timescales  of  a  filling  a  compression or  sort  of  decompression, that's  kind  of,  like,  important,  okay? And  this  you  know, approach  that's  here,  you know,  doesn't  totally  get  you. So  if  you  want  to  analyze, you  know,  systems  that  look, you  know,  again,  like  I  said,  this  one, you  know,  here  with  the  discharge, what  you'll  have  to  do  is  to think  about  these  things  in, like,  little  nuggets, like  in  little  steps,  right? So  I'll  have  a  control  volume,  okay?  Right? I'll  have  some  rate, maybe  that  I'm  bringing  it  in, right,  you  know, let's  say  there's  like  an  MI. Let's  see  if  there's  an  M  dot  I  trash.  Right? So  maybe  I'll  have  a  rate,  right, that  I'm  bringing,  you know,  something  in,  okay? And  I'll  have  maybe a  new  rate  at something  like  an  I  plus  one,  right? Or  maybe  another  way of  saying  this  is  that  I  have an  M  dot  I  at  T, and  then  I  have  an  M  dot  I  at  T  plus  Delta  T. Okay?  And  so  the  way  that  you  can  figure  out, sort  of,  you  know, how  much  mass  you  have  sort  of  in  the  vessel. So  the  mass  that  I  have  here  at  time  T, might  be  equal  to  some original  mass  that  I  have  in there  plus  the  dot I  times  the  delta  T.  And  again, if  you're  very  interested in  these  things  and  you  want  to  see how  actually  to  analyze  this, which  I  want  to  ask  on,  like,  quizzes, you're  going  to  do  a  hybrid  between an  unsteady  flow  problem and  a  steady  flow  problem, and  you  will  solve  this  what's called  numerically,  okay? So,  you  know,  in  between  each  step, you'll  have  something  that's  kind of  like  quasi  equilibrium, so  I  fill  it  a  little  or I  discharge  a  little,  right, to  figure  out  what  my  state  is, and  then  I  go  on  with  the  rest of  my  analysis. So  in  order  to  do  this,  right,  like  I  said, you're  going  to  have  some  version  of some  M  dots  there. You  have  to  know,  like  an  initial  mass. You  have  to  know  sort  of  your initial  states  that  you  start  with. And  if  you  go  on,  like  I  said, kind  of  iteratively  with,  like, Delta  Ts,  you  know, you  can  basically  analyze  it,  right? And  again,  in  the  interest  of time,  I'll  take  you  through  it. So  in  this  problem  here, this  would  be  the  experiment that  I  mentioned  before. So, let's  say  you  have  a  refrigeration  system, there's  a  fire,  you  need  to evacuate  this  whole  thing,  okay? And  you  got  to  do  it  safely. So  you  have  some  volume  associated  with  it, some  pressure,  a  fluid, a  pressure,  a  quality. You  have  some  heat  that's coming  in,  let's  say,  from  the  fire. For  now,  because  I'm  not  going  to  teach compressible  flow  theory  yet. You'll  have  an  MDOT, um  you  know,  with  it,  okay? And  so,  again,  what  you can  end  up  with  here  as  you  can  see, here's  my  mass  flow  rate. Here's  the  pressure  drop that  happens  with  this. Here's  the  change  in  internal  energy. And  you  could  go  on  and,  you  know,  plot a  process  like  that  on a  pH  diagram  of  what a  relief  event  would  look  like. But  this  whole  curve  that  I  produced is  essentially  Little  Delta  Ts, doing  a  numerical  scheme  like this  to  figure  out  the  changes,  okay? Alright,  with  that,  I'm  going  to  stop. If  you  have  any  questions,  I'm  up  here. Otherwise,  on  Wednesday,  we  kick  off  with, I  think,  second  law. Alright,  thank  you,  everyone.
