Covered.  Yeah.  So  it's at  least  I  didn't  do  worse. If  you  want  to  talk or  whatever,  I  have  office  hours, 2  hours  this  Thursday  11  to one  that  busy  Owie  just  send  me  an  e  mail. You  don't  like  schedule  otherwise.  So  Yeah. No,  no,  no  problem.  Good? To  throw  you  out.  Is  the  jort? Yeah.  Questions.  Be  here  after  class. I  have  for  a  ale  bit  of  time. Yeah.  We  can  talk  then. Yeah.  Okay.  Otherwise,  this  Thursday. We  can  definitely start  the  conversation  here. I  think  I  have  a  trip this  week.  Okay.  Very  good.  Yeah. I. Hey,  Jess.  Jesse,  right? Yeah.  Transfer  Yeah. Gradient  of  heat  distribution. Do  we  touch?  Heat  distribution. So  basically,  heat  transfer. So  we  don't  talk  really about  gradients  in  this  class. No.  I.  You  got  to  go  to  Goldner,  you  know. So Definitely err Okay, I  got  310,  so  we'll  get  started. So  today,  we're  going  to pick  off  where  we  left off  last  time  on  gas  power  cycles. And  so  we  were  in  the  middle  of  working solving  some  problems based  on  the  Braden  cycle. So  just  to  remind  you  the  Braden  cycle, you're  working  with  air. So  this  is  a  very  important  cycle when  you're  looking  at  propulsion. O  which  we'll  go through  in  the  second  example  today, something  like  Jets, jet  engines  and  all  of  this. This  is  the  cycle  that  you'll  analyze  when you  want  to  describe  the  performance  of  it, but  you  can  also  use  it  to  produce  energy. So  this  can  also  be  what's  called a  gas  turbine  power  plant,  right? So  as  I  said,  in  short, this  is  something  where  it's  open,  right? You're  going  to  bring  air  in. Right?  It's  an  open  system, so  you  bring  air  in, you  have  a  combustor,  you  compress  it of  combustor,  a  turbine. And  then  if  it's  propulsion, right  use  that  to  go  fast, or  if  it's  about  power, then  you  have  a  network  transfer  from the  turbine  to  let's  say,  a  generator. For  the  purposes  of  analysis,  though, and  to  simplify,  we just  assume  that  instead  of  the  combustion, we  assume  that  the  combustion is  treated  as  like a  heat  exchange  into a  closed  loop  system  here, and  then  we  also  have a  heat  exchange  that  happens. Out,  right? And  the  details  that  we  were  given,  right? So  we  were  given  the  initial  state, the  pressure  after  the  compressor, the  state  of  the  gas entering  the  turbine  there. We're  also  given  pieces  of  information  about the  efficiencies  of the  compressors  and  the  turbines, just  to  refresh  your  memory  about  what  we mean  with  the  efficiencies  of  these  devices, the  efficiency  of  the  compressor, is  the  ratio  of  let's say  the  isentropic  work, right  or  the  minimum work  necessary  to  compress, divided  by  the  actual and  the  efficiency  of  the  turbine. It  was  the  actual  work  produced, divided  by  the  isentropic  work. So  both  of  them  are  less  than  one, and  you  don't  have to  really  keep  this  straight  in  your  head. This  is  kind  of  textbook  knowledge, but  some  questions  were  last  time, Why  is  one  on  top? Why  is  the  isotropic  on  top  here  and the  antropics  on  the  bottom  here, and  it  has  to  do  with  the thought  of  an  efficiency,  right? It's  not  going  to  be  greater  than  one. So  if  you  think  about  a  compressor,  right? If  I  want  to  get  to  that  final  state without  any  entry  generated,  right? That's  going  to  be  the  least  amount of  work  necessary  to  do  it. So  that  should  be  in  the  numerator, or  is  something  like  a  turbine where  it's  a  workout,  right? The  isotropic  work  is  the  upper  limit,  right? That's  the  maximum  you're  going  to  have, so  the  actual  work  is  in the  numerator.  Um,  right? Because  these  are  flow  devices,  right? This  is  nothing  but  differences and  enthalpies  there. So  based  on  the  definitions there  for  the  compressor, This  is  h2s,  where  S denotes  the  isentropic  case, minus  H  one,  which  is the  inlet  to  the  compressor, and  H  two  A,  where  A  denotes the  actual  state  minus  H  one,  right? So  H  one  is  the  same  in  both. And  then  for  the  turbine,  have H  three  minus  H  four  A,  right? So  the  actual  change  in enthalpy  across  the  turbine  here, and  then  H  three  minus  h4s, where  that's  then  the  isentropic  change, right? And  We  had  sufficient  information about  all  the  states  at  the  point  where  we had  left  it  to  know  our everything  up  until  here, how  we  basically  computed  on  the  H  two  A, is  we  rearrange  this,  right? So  O  H  two  A  was equal  to  the  eta  of  the  compressor, I'm  sorry,  was  equal  to  h2s  minus  H  one. All  right,  this  goes  to  the  other  side. This  is  then  divided  by e  two  of  the  compressor  there. And  then  this  would  then  be plus  an  H  one  there. So  that's  how  we  use this  et  information  to  get the  final  real  enthalpy that  we  were  looking  for. And  then  similarly,  Here, we  have  the  H  four  A  being  equal  to  the  e  of the  turbine  times  three  minus  h4s, That's  then  minus  H  three, and  then  all  of  this  would  have  basically a  negative  sign  in  front  of  it. Right? Okay.  All  right. And  so  then  by  knowing basically  by  knowing  H  four, the  H  four  A  there, and  assuming  that  we  don't have  any  pressure  change across  the  heat  exchanger, we  also  know  P  four. So  P  four  is  base  equal  to  P  one. And  from  this,  then  we  have  sufficient, sufficient  information  to  determine  then  our, our  T  four  actual. And  our  two, basically  our  T  two  actual,  right? So  that's  the  towards  part  A, so  the  exit  of  the  compressor. We  already  know,  Right, we  already  basically  know the  pressure  that's  there, we  have  the  P  two,  which  is  given as  the  1,700  KPA. And  we've  also  determined  now  the  H two  A  from  that  formula. So  in  this  case,  we're  going  to  be  able  into the  temperatures  at  the  exits  of the  turbine  and  and  the  compressor. And  so  at  the  exit  of  the  compressor  then, so  putting  this  together,  our  T  two  A. Based  on  that  is  691  K, and  our  T  four  A. So  at  the  exit  of  the  turbine  is  a  984  U C  alvin. It  might  be  an  interesting  exercise to  think  about  then, what  would  be  the  case  if it's  the  entropic  one? So  t2s  then  at the  exit  then  of  the  compressors  and  629  K. I  69.  Should  be  69. Apologies,  bless  you,  691k. And  then  t4s  would then  be  883k.  Alright. So  the  temperature  then,  if  you  were  going  to comprise  antropically  at  the  exit  state, then  you  would  expect that  to  be  lower,  right? So  you  have  less  irreversibilities  there. In  the  case  of  the  turbine, the  t4s  is  then  less basically  less  than  the  T  four  A,  right? You've  extracted  more  work  out  of  it,  right? So  that  takes  care  of  the  temperatures for  the  part  A.  Mm. For  part  B,  this  is a  little  bit  of  a  definition,  right? So  they  ask  about  back  work  ratio. The  backwk  ratio  has  to  do  with the  ratio  of  the  work  done  in  by the  compressor  to  the  work  out  by the  um  um  turbine. All  right.  So  our  back  work  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  work  of  the  compressor,  right? Which  is  a  transferred  in,  right? That's  the  work  transferred  in. I'll  write  little,  you  know,  an  in  for  that. And  then  that's  divided  by  the  work  by the  turbine  transferred  out  there. So  if  that's  like,  unfamiliar  to  you, I  think  you  can  check  on  the  textbook  in the  chapter  on  the  ga  the gas  power  cycles,  right? All  right. And  so  to  get  to  this, right,  to  the  compressor  in. So  the  compressor  in  case  is then  going  to  be  the  right, H  one  minus  h2o,  I'm  sorry. The  other  way  around, H  two  A  is  going  to  be  greater. Let  me  H  two  A  minus  H  one is  then  the  work  transferred in  for  the  compressor. The  work  transferred  out  then  by the  turbine  is  then  going  to  be  H  three minus  h4h4  actual,  right? And  you  can  look these  up  in  the  property  tables, right?  So  we've  gone  through. You  can  use  the  air  property  tables  to determine  to basically  determine  these  values. What  you'll  see  sometimes  two  done. This  is  especially  done  in the  textbook  is  they'll  make what's  called  this  air  standard. Standard  assumption, or  sometimes  it's  called  I  think it's  called  cold  air  cold  air, standard  assumption. And  when  you  basically  see  when  you  see  this, what  it  means  is  that  you  can  look  up the  CP  and  the  adiabatic  ratio, which  is  the  ratio  of  the specific  heat  of  air to  at  constant  pressure  to the  specific  heat  at  constant  value, and  you  compute  these  values at  room  temperature, basically  room  room  temperature. And  that  can  sometimes  be  convenient  because then  what  you  can  write  here is  instead  of  maybe  looking  up, again  now  into  the  enthalps and  the  tables,  which,  you  know, you're  totally  able  to  do  that, which  you  can  write  as  you  mean say  CP,  right,  right? And  then  we'd  have  T  two  actual  minus  T  one, and  then  CP,  T  three minus  t4t4  actual,  right? According  to  the  cold  air  assumption, then  these  CPs  would  go  away. And  so  then  you're  just  looking  at these  temperature  ratios  like  that. I  think  most  of  the  examples  in  the  book, when  I  looked  at  it  relatively  recently, tend  to  follow,  basically  tend to  follow  that  approach, especially  for  the  Braton  cycle,  right? All  right.  So  if  you  were  to  go  in  and  put in  these  values,  then  what  you'd  end  up  with, or  at  least  what  I  have  is  that the  backward  ratio  for the  real  compressor  and  turbine  is  in  0.52. So  for  about  half  the  work, you  put  about  half  the  work in  for  the  compressor  relative to  the  amount  of  work  that  you  get out  of  the  turbine. I  don't  have  a  good  sense of  what  a  good  value  is. I'm  just  telling  you that  that's  what  the  numbers  came  out to  be  in  this  case,  right? All  right.  The  final  one  that we're  asked  on  the  the  thermal  efficiency. So  the  thermal  efficiency  is by  definition.  All  right. So  the  thermal  efficiency  is  by  definition, the  work,  the  network  out. Divided  by  our  Q  in,  right? So  our  network  out  is  equal  to  the  work  of the  turbine  minus  the  work of  our  compressor,  right? Divided  by  Q  Q,  right? So  we  had  right,  the  turbine  here, which  the  with  that,  we  have  the  compressor, which  is  which  is  basically  there. And  then  our  QN. So  the  only  one  that  we're  missing  then  is the  Q  your  question? Okay.  Our  QN  then. If  we  look  at  our  diagram,  right, that's  going  to  be  the  H three  minus  H  two  A,  right? So  I  have  H  three  minus  H  two  A, it's  the  enthalpy  drop  or  the  enthalpy  change across  the  heat  exchanger. And  so  if  you  were  to substitute  that  into  there, previous  numbers  that  we've  calculated, we'd  end  up  with  a  thermal  efficiency  of approximately  34  34%  there. Alright? Which  you  can  ask  yourself is  34%  a  good  number? I  mean,  when  they  invented the  steam  engine  before,  a  long  time  ago. Thomas  the  Tank  engine. The  efficiency,  those  things  were, like,  about  a  percent,  right? Super  bad.  Like,  that's  not  great. I  think  most  modern power  plants  are  somewhere in  the  vicinity  of 40  to  50%  as  an  efficiency. So  something  at  34%,  right, that  doesn't  have  all  of the  bells  and  whistles like  a  power  point  would  have. This  might  be  something  that  you  have,  for example,  like  in  a  shipping  container. You  bring  that  in  that  might  be a  generator  at  a  time  of  need. Or  it's  in  a  location  where, you  know,  maybe  you  don't have  the  other  resources. 34%  is  not  a  terrible, probably  a  terrible  value  there. Okay, the  final  thing  I  want  to  mention  about  this, and  this  is  what  we're  going  to  see for  the  other  cycles that  work  on  air  is  that  if  you make  these  cold  air  assumptions,  right? That  CP  thing  that  I  said. And  if  your  only  interest is  in  determining  the  efficiencies, it  can  be  shown  that  the  efficiency of  a  Brayton  cycle  like that  is  equal  to  one  minus. Let  me  make  sure  that  I'm  visible on  my  screen.  Yeah,  I  am. One  minus  one  over  the  pressure  ratio  RP. So  that's  the  compression  ratio  P two  divided  by  P  one. There  we  mentioned  it  last  time. And  that's  to  the  power  of  APA minus  one  divided  by  APA,  right? And  if  we  put  in  the  values  that  we had  that  we  had  here, so  the  RP  that  I  have,  I  think  it  was  ten. Yeah,  I  think  that  our  RP  before, was  this  P  two  divided  by  P  one. R  P  two  is  1,700  KPA. R  P  one  is  140. KPA,  so  a  little  more  than  than  ten. Does  anyone  know  what  APA  is  for  air? 1.4?  Nice.  All  right. So  the  APA  for  air  is  1.4  again, the  ratio  of  specific  heat of  constant  pressure  to  to  volume. So  if  we  put  this  into  year, then  the  efficiency  that  I  come  up  with, according  to  that  is  0.88%,  right? So,  that  would  be  the  Right,  the  idealized, basically  the  idealized case  with  only  knowledge about  the  compress  the  RP, so  the  pressure  ratio across  the  compressor  and the  colder  assumption  and  not  taking into  account  any  of  these  losses. This  would  be  the  upper  limit, basically  the  upper  limit  of the  efficiency  of  this  cycle. You  could  compare  this,  right? We  could  go  and  compare  this  and  compute the  Eta  thermal  for  the  case  of the  turbine  and  the  compressor operating  isentropically. If  you  did  that,  that  would  just  involve the  use  of  h2s  and  h4s. If  you  did  that,  what you  would  come  up  with  is an  efficiency  that  is  48%,  right? Which  sort  of  makes  sense,  right? If  you  had  the  isytropic  case as  you  would  expect, that  the  value  here  would  start  to approach  would  start  to  approach  that.  Okay? So  a  couple  of  takeaways  before  I  get  to  Sam. So  the  first  thing  is  that you're  noticing  now,  right, that  I'm  not  writing  out the  energy  equation  every time  I  get  into  a  flow  device,  right? So  implicitly,  I'm  assuming steady  states  of  these  things. I'm  knowing  intuitively,  if  there's  work  in, workout,  heat  in  heat  out  for  all  of  this. And  so  I'm  starting  to  write  shorthand, H  three  minus  H  three  minus  H two  and  so  on  and  so  forth. The  other  one  is  this  terminology, things  like  back  workork  ratio. Again,  every  year,  I  have  to  look  this up  because  I  don't  remember  it. That  might  be  a  nice  thing,  to,  for  example, write  on  like  a  cheat  sheet  or whatever  for  an  exam, just  to  have  there because  it  may  not  be  something  that, not  something  I  would recall  relatively  easily. And  maybe  the  same  thing  for the  right  the  cap of  the  CP  divided  by  the  CV. Paul,  I  think  knew  it  off  top  of  his  head, but  not  all  of  us  remember, as  well  as  he  does  for  that. And  again,  when  I  went  into  this, we  were  able  to  finally  make  use  of  some  of these  things  like  the  efficiencies of  the  individual  devices, which  again,  are  because they're  steady  flow  devices. These  just  end  up  being  differences  and enthalpies  for  the  actual and  the  isotropic  cases. Sam?  It's  going  to 20%  For  a  Braden  cycle with  these  conditions,  yes. So  a  Braden  cycle  with that  pressure  ratio  there and  using  air  as  a  working  fluid, that's  going  to  be  the  limiting  efficiency that  you're  going  to  have  for  that  cycle. So,  let  me  ask  it  another  way. What  would  it  take  for any  thermal  engine  to  get  to  100%  efficiency? Slow  would  be  one  thing,  yeah. And  so  what  drives  a  thermal  engine  though? So  I  think  back  to  Carno. All  right?  So  we  think  about  Carno. So  what's  the  What's the  thermal  efficiency  the  definition  of thermal  efficiency  for  a  arnoyle  engine? Yeah,  I  like  that  T.  Exactly. So  how  do  you  make  that  to one?  Exactly. This  needs  to  basically  go  to  zero. Right?  Which  means  that  you  need  to  run  right at  a  very  high  temperature,  right? You  basically  go  to  get  to  a  very, very  high  temperature you  know,  on  the  hot  side. So  there  we  have  1,300 Celsius  in  this  problem. Yeah,  but  you  know,  if  you  want  to get  if  you  want  to  get  me. Right?  If  you  want  to  get  really  high, then  what  you're  going  to  end  up  doing according  to  this  formula  is  what? Right?  Yeah.  Which  is  also  like  saying, right,  that  Yeah, they're  going  to  be putting  you're  when  you  compress  that, but  you're  also  going  to  be getting  a  bit  warm  right. I  don't  remember  the  T two  that  we  calculated. But  yeah,  the  point  is  that  when they  have  these  definitions, if  you  read  in  the  book  and  you  look  at  it, this  is  what  you'll  end  up  with. And  then  taking into  account  the  particularities or  peculiarities  of  the  cycle,  right? But  it's  not  100  because  you don't  have,  you  know, the  temperature  at  state  three  is  not a  you  know,  high  enough. You  can't  be  better You  can't  be  better  than  this. You  can't  be  better  than  carnal. But  it's  a  good  question.  I  think let  me  come  to this  side  and  then  I'll  come  to  you,  Max. Yes. So  the  48%  here. This  was  me  doing  some  shorthand. You  can  see  the  full  details  on  the  link, but  this  would  be  like  computing everything  that  I  just  did  here, but  assuming  isentropic  efficiencies of  the  turbine  and  the  compressor. So  the  reality  was  34%, if  it's  antropic,  it's  48%. And  based  on  the  details  of compression  ratio  and  the  Atiatic  index, the  best  you  could  do  with the  Braden  is  on  50.8. Max?  Assumption  Cold  air. Yeah.  Yeah.  Terminology,  we say  by  referring  to. I  think  they  say  in  the  book. I  think  Braton  is  any  version  where  you  know, you  have  air  as  the  working  medium. You  have  a  combustion  process  that's  there, and  you're  using  that  to  either  produce power  to  a  generator  or  for  a  jet. And  I  think  there  can  be  simplified  Bratton, which  I  think  is  like  cold  air  assumption. Okay,  we're  invisible  in  here. Okay.  I  turned  them  all  on. All  right.  Maybe  not  those. So  that's  one  sort  of simplifying  case  there  is  with  the  cold  air, but  I  don't  remember  all  of  the  definitions, but  I  think  air  being  the  working  fluid  and the  combustion  are  important  features, I  would  say  of  Braton. Amelia?  Yeah. Zed. This  I  would  have  to  dig  into. I  think  it's  not  less. I  think  it  has  to  do  with  the  fact that  I  have  I want  to  walk  it  back  a  little  bit. I  think  that  these  are  essentially the  same  number  here. But  in  this  case,  in  the  48  that  I  have  here, I've  gone  in  and  computed  the,  like, accurate  values  of  my  properties with  basically  the  property  tables  here. And  there's  an  assumption  in  here, which  I  believe  is  the  cold  air  assumption when  they  go  in  and  derive  and  compute  this. But  I'd  have  to  check  in  and  come  back  to you  to  be  100%  sure. Yeah. So  I  think  if  I  did  use  cold  air  here, this  would  come  out  to 50.8  and  would  be  the  same. But  the  point  is  that  what  I've done  to  compute  this  and  also  in my  notebook  there  is  I've  actually  computed the  actual  enthalpy  properties at  each  of  these  states. But  what  I  wanted  to  take  home  message  was that  I  moved  pretty close  to  what  this  value  was. Yeah.  But  it's  a  good  question. Anything  else?  Howard? So  this  here?  So  if  you  were  doing  Braton, and  you're  given  a  few  details, what  you  should  do  is immediately  jump  to  this,  right? So,  you  would  basically  jump  to  this  to  get a  rough  sense  of  what the  efficiency  could  be. What's  the  possible  efficiency  of  Braton? You  know,  you  would  basically  jump to  this  equation  right  away. All  of  this  here  is  then  telling you  if  you  knew  the  peculiarities about  all  the  different  states, how  you  could  go  in  and compute  it  knowing  things  like irreversibilities  in  my  turbine  and  of my  compressor  and  all  of  that to  get  to  the  real  value,  right? This  represents,  like  an  idealized  case, and  this  approach  would  give  you the  reality  of  what  you  have. Cold  air?  Yeah,  I  can.  So  it's  like  this. You  I'm  going  to explain  it  the  best  that  I  know  how,  okay? So  my  understanding  of  it, and  this  is  like  a  textbooks  approach  to it  is  they  say  the  following. I  have  an  enthalpy  change across  a  steady  flow  device, can  be  my  compressor, turbine,  or  a  heat  exchanger  in  this  system. And  you  could  go  and  look up  electronically  or  in the  textbook  what  these  values  are. De.  Alright?  However,  sometimes, it's  more  convenient  if  we  were  to work  in  temperature  differences, which  we're  allowed  to  do  for enthalpy  changes  through  CP,  right? So  for  an  ideal  gas, changes  in  entropy  can  be related  to  changes  in  temperature. If  you  multiply  temperature  by  CP.  All  right. So  what  they  say in  the  cold  air  assumption  is  you  say, what  value  of  CP  should  I  use? Because  I  could  have  1,300  Celsius,  right? I  could  also  have  40  Celsius  there. And  what  they  say  is  that  just  go  ahead and  compute  the  value  or  use the  value  for  room  temperature, and  we'll  check  ourselves  later, right  to  see  if  it  was a  good  assumption  or  not. All  right?  So  it's as  simple  as  that,  I  believe. Good.  All  right. Cool.  So  m  Yeah. So  again,  so  that  was  the  power  plant,  right? So  that  was  the  example  that  we  just did  for  the  power  plant. But  the  other  very  important  application of  this  cycle  is  for  jet  engines,  right? Jet  engines  there.  Right? So  before  World  War  two,  right? What  you  would  have, you  have  these  propellers,  right? And  the  goal  was  to  take  a  lot  of air  and  accelerate  it  slightly, right,  to  get  yourself  going. And  later  on,  what  was realized  is  maybe  a  better  approach, if  you  want  to  go  real  fast is  to  greatly  accelerate  a  small, you  know,  parcel  of  of  air, right?  And  so  what  does  that  look  like? This  is  what  that  looks  like.  So,  again, you  have  the  compressor. Right?  You  have  the  turbine. Here's  our  combustion  chamber. Again, this  is  sort  of  the  idealization  of  it. For  the  case,  though,  of something  like  the  jet, what  you're  doing  is  you're  taking all  A  you're  basically  taking  all  of  the, you  know,  work  extracted  through  the  turbine, and  you're  transferring  it  to the  compressor,  right? So  you're  taking  all  of  the  work, the  turbine  work,  and  you basically  have  a  shaft,  right? That's  connected,  you  know, straight  then  to  the  compressor. So  you  don't  have,  like  work  out. What  you  have  out  then, right  is  speed,  right? So  basically,  you  end  up  just moving  gas  really, really  quickly,  you  know, at  the  back  end  of  the  nozzle that  you  have  there.  And If  you're  doing  it  really  well, the  speed  that  you're  ejecting  the  gas  out matches  right  the  speed that  you're  moving  relative to  the  ground,  right? If  you  end  up  moving  faster than  that,  that's  kind  of  wasted. Right?  So  you  have  things  that  are  moving. Yeah.  But  that's  in  short. It's  actually  a  pretty  clever  idea when  you  think  about  it. To  Yeah,  to  get  that. And  again,  these  are  some  of the  real  if  you're  talking, I  think  the  question  that  Max  had  is, like,  what  are  the  different  cases? I  think  if  you're  looking  at the  idealized  case  of  a  Braden  cycle, right,  your  compression  and  your  expansion are  entropic. And  then  the  other  detail  is  that  you  have this  constant  pressure  heat  addition,  right? We  just  sort  of  if  you  think about  every  way  that we've  treated  a  heat  exchanger, we  have  no  pressure  drop  across  it, so  it  kind  of  makes  sense  then  that  that would  be  a  constant  pressure. Heat  addition.  And  these  are  like, then  the  typical  efficiencies  or  let's  say the  typical  pressure  ratios for  the  gas  turbine  engines. So  you  get  to  these  ratios  here. And  then,  yeah,  apparently  you can  get  up  to  quite  quite some  quite  some  decent  basically  quite some  decent  efficiencies  we  sort  of an  asymptote  to  it. All  right.  Um,  Yeah, these  are  the  particularities. So  if  we  take  now  that  and  we break  it  down  into  each  of the  elements  of  what a  basically  a  jet  engine  looks  like, you  have  a  diffuser  that's  here, so  you  bring  in  air  at  some  speed,  right? You  slow  it  down, you  can  press  the  heck  out  of  it, blow  it  all  up  in  the  combustion, expand  it  through  the  turbine,  make  it  run, and  then  the  back  end  of  the  nozzle then  here  is  where  you  see  the  sort  of the  high  speeds  of  the  system  there,  right? So,  I  mean,  I  think that  this  slide's  kind  of important  and  then  I'll go  through  an  example. We  out  an  example where  where  we  analyze  this. So  the  key  thing  to understanding  that  type  of  force and  that  type  of  propulsion  where  you don't  really  have  acceleration. You're  not  accelerating,  right? So  how  do  you  basically  move  is  to remember  the  definition  of  momentum, which  is  that,  P  is  M  V,  right? P  is  MW.  Basically,  P is  momentum  is  mass  times  velocity. The  force  is  then  the temporal  derivative  of  that. So  what  you're  going  to  end  up  with  is two  terms  of  M  V, you  have  dV  dt, which  is  usually  how  you  think  of one  of  Newton's  laws.  There  F  equals  MA. But  what  you  normally  neglect  because  you're taught  only  like  solid mechanics  until  you're  20, whatever  years  old  is that  there's  another  term, and  that's  DMTV,  right? So  that's  m  V  is  also  a  force, right?  It's  important  fluids. And  so  if  we  look  then  at a  breakdown  of  that  within the  context  of  this  device, M  dot  V  exit  minus  M  dot  V  inlet. If  it's  steady  flow, the.in  is  the  M  dot  out. And  so,  that's the  resulting  force  that  excuse  me, that  you  end  up  with, and  then  that  would  be  the  power,  right? So  you'd  have  the  M  dot  Delta  V, and  then  times  the  velocity  of  your  aircraft. And  then  the  efficiency  here  for something  like  propulsion  is on  the  propulsive  power,  right? So  that's  what  you  produce  as propulsion  divided  by, let's  say  the  fuel  energy that  you  bring  in  or the  energy  of  combustion  that you  bring  in  there. I'd  like  to  do  an  example,  but  I also  like  to  tell  stories. So  Newton,  right? So  what's  tied  into  this,  like, and  the  whole  concept  of  a  nozzle  is  also kind  of  a  relatively  recent  thing. And  an  important  thing  for this  when  you  start  to  get  to such  high  speeds  is the  speed  of  sound,  right? And  so  Newton  had  actually  estimated this  He  assumed  that  the  process, right,  sound  is  what is  this,  longitudinal  wave,  right? If  compression  that's happening  so  compression  expansion, and  that  he  had  assumed  that  it was  sort  of  isothermal, which  at  the  time  he  thought  was  accurate, because  the  way  that  he  measured the  speed  of  sound  is  he  did  this. He  clapped.  Sorry  to  wake  you  up. But  he  did  this  across  a long  across apparently  across  a  long  courtyard. When  I  was  told  to  it,  I  was  told was  in  a  building  in  Cambridge. I  then  looked  this  up  online if  the  Internet  is  to  be  believed, and  had  apparently  said  that  he  could know  when  the  sound  basically hit  because  it  would  knock the  far  end  of  a  corridor  there. And  yeah,  and  you  know, and  so  You  know,  Why  is  that  relevant? Because  when  you  get  into  things like  like  a  nozzle, you  actually  cannot  go  faster, right  than  the  speed  of  sound  unless  you have  a  very  specific  type  of  nozzle,  right? It's  called  Deval  or  Laval  Laval was  a  Swedish  fellow. And  Gustav  D  Laval. I  think  you  worked  in  the  milk  industry. And  what  they  had  realized  is  that, you  know,  you  would  say,  k,  I  want  to  take, you  know,  some  gas, and  I  don't  want  to  make  it  real  fast. So  what  I  should  do  is  I  should  just  start  to taper  down  a  nozzle  into  a  point,  right? And  if  you  do  that,  what  will  happen? You  can  keep  cramming  more and  more  energy  into  it, but  the  speed  of  your  gas  here will  never  be  greater  than the  speed  of  sound,  right? And  that  ratio,  the  speed  of your  speed  or  the  gas  speed relative  to  the  speed  of  sound, we  call  as  the  Mach  number in  doctor  Ernest  Mach. Like,  I  didn't  believe  in  the  Atom. Quite  interesting. You  did  a  lot  of  good  suf,  though. Positivist  philosophy. Um  But  the  point is  that  if  you  get  the  exit  then,  right, and  you  shape  it  right,  this  is  where  you actually  can  get  greater than  the  speed  of  sound,  right? So  it's  basically this  combination  of  converging  and diverging  and,  you  know, some  other  details  with  it, that  allows  you  to  basically  get beyond  right, get  beyond  the  speed  of  sound. And  then  ultimately  for  an  aircraft, to  go  faster,  than  the  speed,  right? But  this  detail  here,  right? We  call  this  basically  the  throat, and  the  flow  is  choked,  right? It's  basically  the  flow  is  choked. So  if  you  looked  at something  at  the  plot  of  the  pressure, the  temperature,  and  the  velocity,  right? Until  here,  you'd  hit  Mc  one, and  then  only  after that  choke  point  through the  throat,  you  know, the  gas  expands,  and  then  you  can  get  to these  supersonic  speeds  through  that,  right? Cool,  Alright. I  think  it's  cool. Alright.  So  let's  go  through  this  example. Now  analyzing  our  jet engine  15  minutes  to  go. And  I  think  if  you  go to  Chabot  Science  Museum, may  actually  see  some  of  this. They  have  like  a  rocket  there, I  think  on  display  and  all  that. A  the  original  one,  if  you  want  to  go, I  think  is  in  over  in  Europe. All  right. I  went. Yeah.  And  so  here, instead  of  having  sort  of those  four  points  that  we  had  on  it,  again, if  you  read  in  the  book  and you  look  through  the  problems, we  talk  about  the  seven or  six  different  points. So  one  to  two  is the  process  through  the  diffuser,  right? So  differ,  I  guess, most  commonly  right  on  like  a  hair  dryer, like  an  attachment,  right? The  goal  is  to  slow  down  or decelerate  a  fluid  speed,  your  compressor, two  to  three,  three to  four  is  your  combustion  chamber, four  to  five  is  the  turbine, and  then  five  to  six  is  the  nozzle. Like  I  mentioned,  before, this  is  a  common  theme at  this  point  in  the  course, we're  going  to  start  to  string  together all  these  different  types of  elements  when  we  analyze. And  then  here  at  our  working  fluid, or  working  with  air, in  this  case,  again, what's  assumed  is  that  this  is all  operating  at  steady  state. For  this,  what  we'd  like  to  know. And  this  is  the  temperature and  the  pressure  at the  exit  of  the  turbine,  right? So  that's  the  first  thing  we're looking  at  with  B. We'd  like  to  know  the  velocity  at the  exit  of  the  nozzle,  right? And  C,  we'd  like  to  know  is  on the  propulsive  efficiency,  right? Alright,  so  this  is  our  goal,  right? So  some  details  that  are  given  to  us. So  we're  told  that  this  propulsion  cycle  is then  for  a  jet  that's  going  at  260  meters. Um  per  second. The  air  that  it's  in  is  at  a  pressure of  34.5  KPA,  right? So  if  you  think  about  air, air  is  a  101  KPA,  down  at  this  level, you  have  a  reduced  pressure  when  you're flying  high. And  then  the  outdoor  temperature  there  is -40  40  degrees  C. We're  told  that  we  have a  compression  pressure  ratio of  ten. All  right.  We  have  a  ratio  of, of  ten  and  that  the  temperature of  the  gas  at  the  turbine  inlet, which  is  one,  two,  three,  four,  T  four, We're  told  is  equal  to  101,093  Kelvin. And  then  finally, the  last  detail  we  have  is  that the  mass  flow  rate  here  of the  air  is  45  kilograms  per  per  second. All  right.  And  what  we're  told  to do  for  the  assumptions  is we're  told  to  assume  the  cold  air  assumption. All  right,  which,  again,  just  to  remind  you, means  we're  going  to  take  a  CP, our  specific  heat  at  25  I  think  it's  like 25  degrees  C  25  degrees  C  there. And  according  to  what  I  have, that's  1.06  kilos  per  kilogram  Calvin. And  then  the  adiabatic  index  K  in  this  case, is  equal  to  1.41  0.4,  right? All  right.  So  let's  start  and  we're  going step  by  step,  right?  Baby  steps  here. So  step  one  to  two.  Again,  this is  the  idealized  case. So  this  is  isentropic. We're  talking  about  isentropic  case. So  one  to  two. And  so  we  can  do our  energy  balance  with  that  again. There's  no  work  here. There's  no  heat  transfer  with  this. There's  no  potential  energy,  right. So  H  two  plus the  velocity  two  squared  divided  by two  is  equal  to  one plus  the  velocity  at  state  one. Square  divided  by  two. Again,  recall  for  an  ideal  gas  that H  two  minus  H  one  is  equal  to C  p  t  two  minus  t  one  there. All  right.  So  we  can  put  that  in. So  this  is  going  to  be  C  p  t two  minus  t  one  plus W  two  squared  divided  by  two  is  equal to  W  one  squared  divided  by  two. The  goal  of  the  diffuser  is  to  decelerate. So  the  velocity  at  state  one. What  do  you  think  the  velocity  at  state  one is?  Say  it  again? Slower. I  don't  want  a  relative.  I  I agree  two  agree  with the  velocity  of  state two  is  less  than  at  one. It's  going  to  be  the  s  as.  Yes. That's  right,  exactly,  which  is our  260  meters  a  second  there. But  relatively  speaking,  then  W  two here  is  comparably  less.  All  right. So  we're  given  W  one,  right? That's  our  260  meters  a  second. We're  given  the  t  one, right?  That's  the  outside  air. CP  we  calculated,  and  so  we can  determine  T  two  as being  equal  to  R  W  one squared  divided  by  two  CP  plus  t  one. All  right?  Yes.  Get  rid  of. So  it's  a  diffuser,  right? So  the  diffuser,  so  we  have a  high  velocity  coming  into  a  diffuser. And  the  purpose  of  a  diffuser is  we  slow  down,  right? So  at  state  two, the  velocity,  if  it's  doing  its  job, should  be  much  less  than  the  velocity it  was  entering  into  it. So  I  can  make  the  argument that  based  on  this  comparison, W  two  squared  is just  not  a  player  then  there, and  we  get  rid  of  it. Okay. Alright. And  so  if  we  substitute  our  numbers,  right? The  ones  that  I  said  before,  which you  would  end  up  with  is  that  T two  is  then  equal  to  266. Calvin,  right?  All  right. Now,  the  diffuser  is  isentropic.  All  right. So  now  I  know  T  two.  I  know T  one  and  I  know  P  one. Since  this  is  isentropic,  right, we  can  use  our  TDS  relations. And  so  P  two  is  equal  to P  one  times  the  ratio  of  T  two divided  by  T  one  to  the  ratio  of APA  divided  by  APA  minus  one  there. All  right?  You  guys  remember  this?  No. I  spent  that  whole  day  deriving  TDS, and  I  said  it  was differences  in  volume  and  temperature, temperature  and  pressure,  pressure and  volume  with  it. Now  we  said  that  the  differences  in P  zero,  and  if  we  have  that, then  we  can  end  up  with  ratios of  pressures  and  temperatures, temperatures  and  volumes,  volumes, and  pressures.  Right?  This  is  this. Now,  rubber  road  ear  it  meets,  right? So  if  you  substitute  the  values  then  here, which  you'll  end  up  with  then  as  a  P  two, which  is  then  55  KPA  there,  right? Okay,  so  we've  done  one  to  two. We  know  everything  about  going  1-2  here. All  right.  So  two  to  three. Alright.  The  first  thing  that  we  know is  that  we  have  this  ratio  of pressures  and  going  2-2  to  three. So  P  three  is  equal  to this  RP  times  P  two.  We  know  what  P  two  is. We  know  that  the  RP  was  equal  to  ten. And  so  if  you  substitute  that, you'll  end  up  with  five,  five,  552  KPA. I  dropped  a  significant  digit  in the  P  two.  There,  that's  good. And  then  again,  recalling  that this  process  is  going  to  be  in  tropic, we  can  use  a  different  relation. Namely,  this  relation  is  T  three  is equal  to  T  two  times  the  ratio  of  P  three divided  by  P  two  to  the  APA  minus one  divided  by  APA  value  there. All  right.  And  again, if  you  substitute  in the  values  that  we  have,  right, K  is  the  1.4,  this  ratio  is  ten, and  then  we  have  the  T two  that  we  just  determined  as  266. You'll  see  that  this  T  three  is  516  Kalvin. Alright. So  we  know  P  three,  and  we  know  T  three. So  that's  done.  We're  going to  talk  now  about  three  to  four, three  to  four  is  the  combustion  chamber. There's  actually  very  little  to  do here  at  the  moment, because  actually  we're  given the  temperature  at  T  four. So  we  only  have  to  make  one  assumption  here, which  is  that  P  four  is  equal  to  P  three. So  again,  kind  of  treating  it like  a  heat  exchanger. So  we  said  that  there's no  pressure  drop  across  it, and  we're  given  T  four,  right? So  it  means  that  we  know  everything  then  at state  four.  So  this  is  done. And  we're  going  to  use  this  fact  that  we know  the  temperature  at  T  four  and at  T  three  to  compute  the  amount  of  heat  that we  actually  add  in  at  that  point,  right? Process  four  to  five.  We're  rolling.  Okay. Good.  It's  an  isentropic  expansion of  the  ideal  gas  in  the  turbine. So  we  neglect  the  kinetic  energy  changes. No  potential  energy  changes, and  the  turbine  work is  equal  to  the  compressor  work,  right? So  the  Little  W  compressor  N  is  equal to  my  Little  W  turbine  Out. Alright,  which  the  work  for the  compressor  in  is  going  to be  H  three  minus  H  two. Again,  I'm  not  doing my  full  energy  balance,  right. I'm  just  looking  and  knowing intuitively  that  the  anthropy is  higher  at  St  three  because  I  compressed, and  then  H  two, it's  less  because  it's  entering. And  then  with  the  turbine, it's  the  opposite,  right? The  entropy  is  higher, when  it  enters  the  device, and  it's  less  when  it  comes  out  because ites  used  that  to  transfer  work. Cold  air  gas  assumption. C.  T  three  minus  T  two  is  equal  to  CP, T  four  minus  T  five. And  if  we  rearrange,  we  can  then  get the  state  to  T  five, a  T  five  is  equal  to, because  the  CPs  are  going  to  go  away. So  T  five  is  equal  to  T  three  minus  t  two. And  that'll  be  minus,  wait.  Hold  on. Nope,  wait,  wait,  wait. Excuse  me.  Sorry. All  right,  T  five, we'll  go  to  the  other  side, so  then  we'll  have  t  four,  right, minus  T  three  plus  T  two.  All  right. And  then  this  gets  us  to  the  first  part  rate. So  we  know  the  first  piece  of information  about  the  temperature. We  know  T  two,  T  three,  T  four. So  T  five  is  one, one,  one,  seven  Calvin. And  just  like  we  did  before,  right? We  know  the  T  five,  the T  four,  and  the  P  four. So  we  can  use  one of  those  isotropic  relations, P  five  is  equal  to  P four  times  T  five  divided by  T  four  to our  APA  divided  by  APA  minus  one.  All  right. Um  Oh,  and  if  we  substitute, we  can  substitute  into  here, and  if  you  substitute, what  you'd  have  is  that  this  is 27321  4  Pascals,  right? Okay.  Yeah,  so  that takes  us  basically  for  the  Part  A. So  for  P  A.  We  needed  to  know  this, and  we  needed  to  know  this. What  I'll  pick  up  then  with  next  time, since  I  believe  I'm  out  today  is that  I  will  do  then  the  Part  B  and  C, which  will  be  pretty quick  now  that  we've  set  it  up. If  you  have  any  questions,  I'm  up  here. Otherwise,  have  a  good  rest  here  afternoon. Earlier,  you  had  I  and  tropic
