Okay,  so  first  law, let's  talk  about  this  before  we dive  in  to  second  law. So  what  we  found from  the  first  law  was  it  was impossible  to  make  a  machine that  could  make  energy,  right? That  could  generate  that could  basically  create  energy. We  talked  about  transformations. We  said,  We  can't  have  a  machine  that  just creates  energy.  Energy  always  is. It  just  goes  through  transformations. Thing  about  the  first  law  though, is  it  doesn't  put  any  constraints  on this  energy  transformation,  you  know, from  one  into  the  other. So  this  example  that  I  give  you  here, let's  say  this  experiment that  Jewell  did,  right? Jewell  took  a  paddle, and  he  spun  this  paddle  in  water,  right? That  paddle  hit  the  water, caused  the  water  to  move, that  water  then  dissipated this  energy  viscously.  It  became  heat. And  then  he  was  measuring that  with  a  thermometer. We  thought,  Okay,  we could  do  that  in  reverse. Why  don't  I  just  take  the  heat,  pump  it, or  transfer  it  into  the  water, and  it  should  cause  the  paddle  to  spin. Does  that  work  based  on your  experience?  Hell,  no,  right? So  that  does  not  work. So  that  does  not  work.  And  the  second  law, right  is,  you  know,  we  need  another  law  then. So  cause  the  first  law doesn't  put  any  stop  sign  for  that. Exactly.  So  as  we  know,  right? So  as  we  know  from  this  fact of  this  example  here  with, you  know,  the  paddle,  or  from  the  example  of, let's  say,  I  have  a  resistor,  right? I  pass  electricity  through that,  it  makes  heat. If  I  transfer  heat  into  that  resistor, I  do  not  get  electricity  out  of  it. So  we  know  from  experience, there  are  definite  limitations  into the  transformation  of  heat  into  work. And  that  is  what  motivated,  right, the  development  of  the  second  laws to  explain  that  and  then ultimately  use  it  for  developments. And  so  for  a  long  time,  people tried  to  do  this  stuff,  though. People  tried  to  make  these  machines that  could  create  energy, you  know,  on  their  own. If  you  were  able  to  do  what I  just  described  before, you'd  be  able  to  take  a  machine, literally  extract  heat  out  of the  surroundings,  cooling  it, and  then  directly  creating it  to  work  because we're  on  Earth  here  and we  have  heat  everywhere,  right? So  there's  thermal  energy contained  in  here  in the  soil  and  the  atmosphere. You  have,  like  an  unmited  reservoir  of  heat. It  is  also  the  challenge  of your  our  entire  lives,  right? Is  the  fact  that  we  have  too  much  of  it. And  so  what  you  would  end  up  if  you were  to  create  such  a  device  is  you  could define  something  that  would  do  what's  called perpetual  motion  or  perpetual  mobily,  right? So  it's  a  perpetual  motion  machine. And  people  like  devoted a  lot  of  their  times  and  lives, like  the  alchemists  trying  to  make gold  from  what  lead  or  whatever  it  was. They  were  the  equivalent  of,  you  know, the  alchemists  in  thermodynamics were  working  on  perpetual  motion. And  the  second  law  firmly rolls  these  out,  okay? So  if  you're  an  engineer  and  you  come  across, if  someone  sends  you  some  e  mail, it  gives  you  a  phone  call  and  says, Oh,  I  got  this  great  thing. You  know,  I  only  pay, you  know,  you  know, ten  kilojules  of  energy,  you  know, of  this,  and  you're  going  to  get,  like 20  kilojoules  out. You're  going  to  first  of  all  say,  Hey, that's  like  a  violation  of the  first  law,  okay? And  the  second  thing  is  you're  going  to  say it  definitely  also  violates, you  know,  the  second  law  there  as  well. So,  you  know,  you  use  this  to  kind  of sniff  out  in  a  phrase  bullshit,  right? You're  going  to  use  this  as  your  kind  of BS  meter.  All  right. All  right.  And  this  was  the  cover  of popular  magazine  in  apparently in  the  1920s  there. So,  like  I  said, a  lot  of  people  work  for  a  long  time. They  tried  to  do  it.  They  don't  work,  okay? But  if  you  do  make  one  and  they  do  work, you  will  get  filthy  rich,  but,  again, I  don't  necessarily  advise investing  your  life  in. Another  key  concept  when  we're  talking  about the  second  law  and  understanding  it, and  what  it  means  is to  talk  about  what's  called the  thermal  energy  reservoir. In  a  nutshell,  it's something  that's  big,  okay? With  respect  to  the  thing  that's  transferring heat  and  from  it. Examples  sort  of  in everyday  life  would  be  something  like  ocean. So  if  you  do  atmospheric  modeling or  simulations, let's  say,  you're  transferring  heat, maybe,  you  know, over  the  course  of  a  day,  maybe  from that  into  the  ocean  or  maybe  it's  you, you're  by  there  and transferring  some  heat  to  and  from  it. The  temperature  of  the  body doesn't  really  change,  right? Because  you  are  well,  whatever. The  thing  transferring  it  is probably  very  small  with respect  to  the  ocean  because  that's a  very  big  entity. And  that's  the  point.  You  transfer energy  to  or  from  it, but  the  temperature  of  the  reservoir doesn't  change. We'll  get  to  why?  We  need  that  in  a  second. Okay.  So  as  I  said, a  lot  of  well, the  first  law  and  the  second  law. A  lot  of  these  things, right?  We  did  experiments. We  observed  what  happens, and  we  try  to  come  up  with rules  that  kind  of, you  know,  are  trying  to rationalize  what  we  observe. In  thermo,  we  call  those  postulates. You  postulate  this. So  the  first  law  was  a  postulate on  the  conservation  of  energy. And  that  is  pretty  straightforward. That's  like  accounting,  right? That's  like  accounting.  The  second  law is  not  exactly  as  straightforward  as  that. So  I'm  going  to  give  you two  statements  about  the  second  law. I'll  read  them. I'll  read  them  kind  of  slowly. The  first  one  is  from  Lord  Calvin, so  I  got  a  very  famous  famous  physicist. So  a  transformation,  whose  only  final  result is  to  transform  into  work.  Dramatic  effect. Heat  extracted  from  a  source, which  is  at  the  same  temperature  throughout is  impossible. Right?  You're  going  to  read  that  and  you  say, what  the  heck,  does  that  mean? We're  going  to  do  an  example  in  a second  to  make  it  firm. But  the  thing  is  that  the  keywords  here, first  keyword  I  want  to  point  out here  is  only  final  result. So  the  only  final  result  of, let's  say  this  transformation  is you're  taking  this  heat  from  some  source, so  a  single  source temperature  uniform throughout  at  the  same  temperature, and  you're  going  to  convert  this  directly into  directly  into  heat. So  keep  this  in  mind. This  also  doesn't  come  for  me. I  have  to,  like,  think  about  this  a  lot. Like  I  think  about  this  so  much that  sometimes  I  dream  about  it, and  then  I  freaks  my  wife  out,  right? And,  yeah,  but  it's  deep  stuff. And  the  evidence  to  support this  statement  is  people have  tried  to  do  this. So,  as  I  said,  before,  you  know, with  this  example  of  the  Jewels  machine of  the  heat,  you  know, directly  into, let's  say  that  paddle  and  trying  to  get work  directly  out.  Um,  it  doesn't  work. There's  a  lot  of  other  you can  go  into  Wikipedia. It's  amazing  how  many  devices  that they've  tried  to  construct. And  when  a  device,  let's  say, satisfies  the  first  law,  as  I  said, energy  conservation,  but  does not  satisfy  this  statement, we  call  that  a  perpetual mobile  of  the  second  kind. So  second  means  the  second  law, if  something  wasn't  was a  machine  that  violated  the  first  law, we'd  call  it  perpetual  mobile of  the  first  kind. I'll  give  you  a  second  statement on  the  second  law. So  the  second  statement  is  a  transformation whose  only  final  result is  to  transfer  heat  from  a  body  at a  given  temperature  to  a  body  at a  higher  temperature  is  impossible. This,  you  already  did. Who  was  here  for  that  experiment? We  did  molecular  dynamic simulations  in  class, and  we  looked  at the  direction  that  heat  transferred. He  may  have  been  here. Maybe  you  don't  remember  it. I've  given  you  a  lot  of  information. But  you  did  look  at  it.  You  had a  reservoir  at  one  temperature. You  had  another  one  at  another, you  released  the  barrier, and  you  looked  at  how  the  mean  temperature spatially  was  varying. This  is  something  that's more  intuitive  to  me. So  this  statement  on  the  second  law  is  like, things  at  high  temperature tend  to  spread,  right? So  I  have  a  hot  pan  at  home,  a  silly  hot. Okay?  I  take  it  off  the  stove, and  I  set  it  on,  you  know, sort  of  an  insulating  at  there, and  what  will  happen  is  over  time, right,  that  thermal  energy will  dissipate  to  the  environment, conduction,  convection,  radiation,  right? It's  going  to  go  away.  So  that's an  example  of  things  tend  to  spread. Take  a  balloon,  right?  I  take  a  balloon. High  pressure,  right  of  gas  in  it. I  pop  it,  right? That's  enjoyable.  But,  you  know, what  you  have  there  is  that the  gas  tends  to  expand. So  another  example  of  it, a  third  one,  I  mean, examples  are  given  here  like  perfume,  right? So  you  put  something  here, you  spray  a  bit  of  it. It  tends  to  diffuse,  food dye  and  water.  It  tends  to  suffuse. So  this  is  something  where  you  probably have  preexisting  knowledge,  right? Of  This  is  a  postulate  for  Rudolf  Clausius. So  Rudolf  Clausius  was the  first  chair  of  Physics  at  Atahsdi. So  that's  where  I  was  before. My  building  that  I  was  on  was called  Clausiustrase, which  means  Clausius  Street. And  yeah,  he  was  there basically  in  the  1850s, and  he  took  Saudi  Carno and  put  it  on  a  firm  basis. So  he  took  the  work  a  Saudi, which  was  already  very  good, but  was  using  what  was  called Caloric  theory  of  heat. Clausius  put  it  on  a more  firm  basically  firm  basis. There,  he's  a  kind  of  interesting  history, and  if  you  want  to  learn  more  about  it, you  can  read  it.  Um  there. Okay?  So  you  have some  preexisting  experience on  this  statement. I've  given  you  this  other  statement  there. And  here's  what  I'd  like  to  do  now,  right? So  to  kind  of  make  this  concrete, especially  the  first  statement,  which  is a  bit  less  intuitive. So  I'm  giving  you  this. I'm  giving  you  Calvin's  statement. I'm  putting  this  term  in  bold  here, and  this  is  the  scenario. So  the  scenario  is  you  have a  thermal  energy  reservoir. Remember.  Big  thing  at  some  temperature. Temperature  won't  change  if  I  transfer  heat. So  I  take  that,  I  transfer  some  heat into  excuse  me,  this  piston. So  this  piston  here can  expand  so  that  the  piston  rod  can  move. So  the  substance  that's  in there  is  an  ideal  gas. The  ideal  gas  is  expanding  because  of  this. And  we  assume  that the  gas  is  then  isothermal, y  because  you  have  it  in  contact  with the  energy  reservoir,  right? So  that's  the  prompt.  Give  me  a  second. All  right.  And  so  the  first  question  that you're  going  to  ask  is that  I  want  you  to  answer  with  this, you  can  open  it  up  on  your  phones. But  the  first  question  is,  does the  internal  energy  of the  gas  change  during  this  process? So  if  I  take  this  thing, it's  at  a  constant  temperature, and  I  transfer  heat,  does the  internal  energy  change for  the  isothermal  process? Um,  the  second  one  is  using the  first  law  applied  to  this  control  volume. Is  the  work  performed  by the  expanding  gas  equal  to the  heat  that  it  absorbs? So  is  the  boundary  work, the  PDV  work  that happens  here  equal  to the  heat  that's  transferred. And  then  what  I  want  you  to  do with  those  two  pieces  of  information, which  hopefully  are  straightforward is  answer, is  this  a  contradiction  of the  Kelvin  postulate,  which  is  here,  okay?
