310. I'm  going  to  get  started. Okay.  So  we  finished now  with  the  entropy analysis  of  our  control  volume. Today,  we're  going  to  move  into a  part  called  RG. I'm  going  to  preface  the  word G  by  saying  that it  will  not  be  on  any  of  your  exams. Okay.  But  I  don't  want  you  to  go  to  sleep. So  it's  going  to  be  on  your  homework, and  it's  also  going  to  be  on potentially  on one  of  the  thermodynamic  projects, depending  on  what  you  select. I  also  want  to  mention  that  R  G  is  kind  of, like,  a  modern  analysis. So  if  you  read research  papers  and  you look  at  people  who  are doing  thermo  of  systems, it's  common  to  read  this. So  I  think  it's  important  that you  have  some  exposure. To  it. Things  that  are  not  there  more  related. I  don't  know  if  you  know,  but  there's  a  comet that  you  can  see  in  the  evening, like,  right  after  sunset. So  yesterday  I  looked  in  the  sky. I  thought  it  was  a  plane  from the  Aaron  Water  Show, but  it's  actually  a  comet. There,  and  there  was  a  shooting  star last  night  over  Berkeley. So  good  men  Good  Omens,  I  think, Celestial  Omens  for  today. Alright?  So  today,  we're  going  to talk  about  erg  destruction. So  introduce Exerg  we'll  talk  about  destruction. And  the  point  is  that  I'm  gonna  link  it to  something  you  already  know, which  is  the  entropy  generation. Right? And  the  way  I  want  to introduce  this  is  through  a  problem. So  I'm  not  gonna  give  you  the  formulas. Today,  we're  gonna  go  on  intuition and  what  we  know,  right? So  rather  simple  system. So  this  is  a  nozzle.  Alright. The  working  fluid  here. We're  dealing  with  is  air. Alright  have  working  fluid  of  air  that's coming  in  at this  pressure  in  this  temperature, an  unknown  mass  flow  rate, and  this  velocity,  right? And  the  purpose  of  a  nozzle is  like  a  super  soaker,  right? You  want  to  go  fast,  right? It's  all  guess.  So  out  of this  then,  we  get  real  fast. We  have  a  very  fast,  you  know, velocity  at  the  exit  and  a lower  and  a  lower  pressure. So  the  first  question, which  is  rather  pedestrian for  this  at  this  stage  is  we're going  to  get  the  exit  temperature  at  T  two, and  then  we're  going  to  calculate the  P  generated,  right? And  the  final  thing  I'm  gonna do  is  in  a  very  simple  step. I'm  gonna  tell  you  what RG  destruction  is,  right? This  is  gonna  be like  scalar  multiplication,  right? So  you're  just  going  to  get  there. And  then  after  that,  I'll  go  into the  deeper  part  of erg  and  do  the  same  analysis, but  an  ERG  analysis. And  I  hope  in  this  way  that I  introduce  you  to  this,  and  one, you  see  that  it's  kind of  familiar  and  intuitive, and  two,  my  goal  is  not  to  scare  you. Alright,  or  put  you  to  sleep,  right? We'll  see  what  I  succeed  with  today. Alright.  So  here's  our  problem,  right? So  you  have  this  nozzle  there, so  let's  start  with  our  first  part. So  in  the  first  part  here, we  recognize  that  we have  the  control  volume,  right? So  we  assume  first, assume  All  right,  that  we have  we  have  a  steady  behavior,  right? So  our  D  dts  are  zero. So  from  our  conservation  principles, O  M  dot  n  is  equal  to the  n  dot  out  of  our  control  volume, which  I'm  just  going  to  call  a  m  dot. And  for  the  energy  one  dvdt  is  equal  to  e  n minus  e  because  it's steady  dot  n  is  equal  to  e.  All  right? I  to  see  if  I  have  a  better  marker. Better.  Okay.  That's  better.  All  right. And  again,  just  to  be,  you  know, fully  um  descriptive  here, and  again,  you  can  follow  along  with the  notebook  if  you  want  to. So  the  rate  of energy  transferred  into  a  control  volume, right,  can  be  our  heat  or  work  or  or  mass. So  we  got  our  Q  dot  plus our  W  dot,  plus  our  n  dot, R.  Francisco  could  be a  generalized  E  dot  plus, you  know,  H  W squared  divided  by  two  plus  g  z,  right? And  for  both  of  these  ones, you  know,  we're  going  to  neglect our  potential  energy  terms. We're  not  going  to neglect  our  kinetic  energy. Y? The  whole  point  of  the  device,  right? Is  to  get  KE.  Alright. We  do  not  have  work,  right? There's  no  work  transfer  apparent work  transfer  that's  happening. But  we  are  told  that  there's  heat  lost. All  right,  we  are  told  that there's  heat  lost  out. Three  kilo  joules  per  kilogram. And  so  I'm  noting  that  with little  Q  there,  right? So  there's  heat  lost  with  it. So  I'm  going  to  leave  the  heat  term  in. And  so  if  we  rewrite  this, and  that's  out,  so  there  is  no  heat  in. So  if  you  write  the  left  hand  side  of  e  dot, so  our  e  dot  n  is  going  to  be our  dot  times  R  one. I'm  going  to  refer  to,  right? The  left  hand  side  here  is  state  one  with the  subscripts  and  the  right  hand  side for  the  exit  is  state  two. So  n.h1  plus W  one  squared  divided  by  two. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  equal  to  F  now, I'm  going  to  write  it  is  Q  out, with  the  big  ones. I'll  make  it  in  a  second. And  then  this  is  plus  m  dot  times  h two  plus  W  squared  2/2.  Right? I'm  going  to  divide  both  sides  by  m  dot. All  right.  And  the  Q  dot  t  divided  by  m dot  is  going  to  be  little  Q.  All  right. And  we're  going  to  call  that  little  Q. And  call  that  Q.  There.  All  right. And  I  said,  our  goal  here  is to  figure  out  then  what  H  two  is. And  then  with  H  two  known and  that  pressure  at  the  outlet, we're  going  to  be  able  to  determine the  temperature,  the  temperature  properties. All  right.  Good.  All  right. So  rearranging  with  this, so  we  can  right  now  that  H  two  is  equal  to R  one  plus  R  W  one  squared  divided  by  two. We'll  subtract  the  W  two. So  minus  W  two  squared  as  a  two. Two.  Sorry.  Two.  All  right. And  then  minus  R  Q  R  Q, is  that  right?  Yes,  that's  right. If  you  go  in  and  you  substitute  the  value. So  if  you  launch  the  notebook  there, I  look  up  what  the  property  tables are  for  the  H  one, which,  again, we  can  determine  because  we  know the  t  and  the  P.  There. We're  given  velocity  one, which  I  think  is  5  meters  a  second. The  W  two  is  240  meters  a  second, the  Q  is  the  three  kilos  per  kilogram. If  you  put  this  together, this  is  then  33  kilojoules per  kilogram  for  H  two. And  then  with  that  known,  right? So  by  knowing  our  P  two  and  H  two, we  have  sufficient  information  about the  state  to  know  everything including  what  two  is. T  two  here  then  I  have is  3.9  degrees  C.  Okay? Yes,  please.  Sam,  right? Yeah.  Okay.  Yeah. Yeah,  so  this  is  a  sort  of a  slide  of  hand  here  that  I'm  moving  through. So  as  I  mentioned,  well, I  didn't  mention  this  before, but  this  is  an  aside. So  for  water.  Alright.  All  right. There's  one  equation  that  we  solve, and  from  that,  we  derive  everything. That's  included  in  a  package that's  called  IAP  WS. This  is  what  you  know  until  now,  right? For  what  I  want  to  call  other  fluids, O  fluids,  engineering  fluids. There's  another  package, which  is  called  cool  Prop. All  right.  There. All  right.  And  so  that's  what  you  see  here. The  syntax  is  slightly  different. I  prefer  PWS. I  think  it's  more  intuitive. This  is  cool  Prop. If  you  want  to  ask yourself  where  this  comes  from, Cool  Prop,  does  anyone  know? Okay,  so  there's  an  organization  called  NIST. They  want  to  know  what  Nist  is.  Awesome. Okay,  so  this  is  the National  Institute  of  standards. NIST  publishes something  that's  called  Ref  Prop. Ref  Prop  is  something that  has all  the  thermoyamic  properties  of  fluids. Cool  Prop. My  understanding  is  that  it's  a  wrapper. Right?  So  a  Python  wrapper  that  pretty much  displays  f  Prop  properties  to  you. So  what  I  want  you  to know  is  that  it's  pretty  solid. And,  yeah,  we're  we're  gonna  use  that. Since  you're sufficiently  confused  at  this  point, I  might  as  well  tell  you that  there's  a  third  wrapper, a  wrapper  of  a  wrapper, and  that's  called  Pi  fluids. And  Pi  fluids. Is  something  that  is  actually  pretty useful  when  you  start  to deal  with  things  like  mixtures. So  like  humidities,  when  you  do things  with  air  conditioning of  air  and  all  of  that. That's  one  that  appears. So  again,  this  is  really for  water,  very  accurate. Advantage  of  IPWS,  is  that  it gives  you  the  exact  properties of  the  book  there, so  that's  very  helpful  when  you're teaching  students  at  the  beginning. Alright. Cool  prop  Alright, does  all  the  other  fluids  can  also  do  water, but  the  problem  is  that  the  values  he gives  you  are  not  the  same  as  in  the  book. Less  good  for  teaching  and introducing  students  there. And  then  Pi  fluids  is  like,  you  don't  care, and  you  don't  want  to  know any  of  these  details, and  you  just  go  right  to  that. It's  a  very  kind  of  high level  convenient  one  to  work  with. But  in  this  problem,  when  you  look  at  it, you're  going  to  see cool  prop  and  the  related  syntax. Okay.  Any  questions  about  that? You're  smart  kids.  Go  get  it. Alright?  Good.  So  that's  T  Yeah. So  that's  m Yeah,  and  I  also  want  to  mention  too,  right? We're  not  doing  any  sort  of computer  based  exam  stuff  with the  cool  Props  just  convenient  for, like  I  said,  for  analysis,  All  right?  Good. We  have  that. In  addition  to  in addition  to  having  the  T  two, what  we  also  have,  of  course, is  the  S  two  property. And  what  I  want  to  mention from  that  too  is  that  obviously, since  we're  able  to  know the  enthalpy  at  State  one  and  Compute, we  can  of  course  compute  the  entropy at  State  one  as  well. All  right?  So  we're going  to  work  on  Part  B  now, which  is  what's  the  entropy generated  during  during  the  process. So  again,  I'm  looking  at  my  control  volume, which  is  red  there  so the  change  in  entro  P within  that  control  volume. So  DS  DT  within  the  control  volume is  equal  to  the  rate  that  entro  P  enters minus  the  rate  that RP  exits  plus  the  rate  that  it's  generated. And  then  this  is  the  one that  we're  interested  in. Again,  we  assume  that  a  steady  state. So  this  term  goes  away. And  so  S  dot  en  right, is  equal  to  S  stat  out  minus  s.in,  right? And  so  what  we  got  to  figure  out  now  is, how  is  it  leaving  and  how  is it  and  how  is  it  entering,  right? Well,  we  can  write  this  as  our  M  dot. So  first,  we're  going  to  look at  the  fluid  streams. So  the  S  out. Is  going  to  be  the  fluid  stream two.  That's  leaving. This  is  little  S.  This  is  little  S  here. S  two.  All  right.  So  that's  exiting. What's  coming  in  is  the  S  one.  All  right. And  then  what  also  is  leaving is  that  we  have  heat,  you  know, transferring  out,  and  that's  going  to  be Q  divided  by  T  zero,  right? And  what's  T  zero?  T  zero is  the  environmental  temperature  there, which  is  17  degrees  C. So  think  about  this  as,  you  know, the  environmental,  you  know,  temperature. Okay?  So  this  we  know, right  from  tables.  This,  we  also  know. This  is  given.  This  is  given. We  don't  know  M  dot. And  if  I  asked  for  it  correctly, what  we  actually  want  to divide  both  sides  by  M  dot  here. And  so  what  this  is going  to  be  is  that  it's  going  to  be little  S.  Gen  is  equal  to  S  little  S  two minus  little  S  one plus  should  not  be  a  dot  here.  I  apologize. Plus  Q  divided  by  t  zero,  right? And  I  could  substitute some  values  within  it  there. That's  fine.  So  like  ge  said,  s2s1 are  known,  and  that's  there. What  I  want  to  do  right  now, and  I'm  going  to  link  this. This  is  an  important  moment is  I'm  going  to  link this  now  to  erg. All  right?  So  an  important  concept  in erg  is  it's  destruction. And  so  by  definition  here  are  X destroyed  right,  is  equal  to. This  is  little  x  Little  S  gen  times  T  zero. And  so  if  you substitute  those  values  into  there, what  you're  going  to  have  is  that the  X  org  destroyed  is 36.9  kilo  joules  per  kilogram. All  right?  And  this  is,  this  is  part  B. And  then  this  is.  Okay. So  let's  dig  into  what  that  means  there. I'll  slide  this  over,  so Yeah. Alright. And  the  one  thing  I want  to  point  out  with  this, and  maybe  it's  already  sort of  apparent that  here  we  talk  about  generation, and  here  we  talk  about  destruction. This  is  a  little  bit  like  two  halves of  the  same  coin,  alright? Looking  at  the  world  through  the  glass being  half  empty  or  half  full. Alright?  Entropy  is  half  empty,  right? This  is  like  Schopenhauer, you  know,  pessimistic  view  of  the  world. This  is  an  optimistic, I  don't  know,  Leibnitz. You  know,  there's  many  possibilities, and  we're  all  hay  within  it  there,  right? Good.  So  what  is  exergy,  right? So  what  it  is,  is  that  it's the  maximum  useful  work  you  can get  from  an  initial  state.  All  right? So  I  define  this  initial  state that  I  start  with, so  some  temperature,  some  pressure. This  is  usually  you  know, this  is  for  it  to  be  useful,  right? It  needs  to  be  above  the  ground  state. All  right? So  if  you  think  about potential  energy,  I  start  here. Here's  my  ground  state,  right? So  it's  useful  because  it  can pass  from  here  to  the  ground  state. If  you  want  to the  real  ground  state,  you  know, I  got  to  go  all  the  way  down, but  further  than  that, it's  not  going  to  happen. Alright?  Alright,  so  that's  the  whole  point. So  we're  talking  about,  you  know,  when  do exergy  analysis,  we  talk  about,  okay, this  is  the  initial  state, and  then  this  is  the  ground  state. And  I  want  to  take  a  path  from here  to  here  that  maximizes  work  out. That's  it.  All  right? And  it's  a  long  standing  goal. I  a  longstanding  goal  in  thermodynamics was  to  have  such  an  analysis. And  if  along  the  way  from  here  to  here, I'm  not  able  to  realize right  that  maximum  work  output. It  means  I  lost  something.  All  right? Maybe  I  lost  it  to  friction. I  lost  it  to,  you  know, maybe,  you  know,  he  transfer, but  I've  lost  something,  and we  call  that  exergy  destruction. Right?  And  that's  exactly  what  we've solved  for  right  there,  right? So,  you  know,  what  you  did,  you  had, you  know,  some  energy,  right? And  you  basically  lost  this  out to  the  environment  at  at  that  temperature, or  that  pressure  there. Yeah.  Yeah.  So  you  might  see a  system  or,  you  know,  some  stats  and  stuff. You  say,  Okay,  how  useful  is  it? Xo  G  will  allow  you  to  do  that. It's  sometimes  called  available. Um  no  available  energy. But  again,  a  key  point of  this  analysis  is  that, you  want  to  know  the  maximum  work  out,  right? What's  the  initial  state, right,  that  you  need  to  know? What's  the  final  state? And  what's  the  process  path  to  get  there? In  an  x  RG  analysis, this  final  state  are  usually  calling  it like  T  zero  and  P  zero. So  typical  number  for T  zero  is  something  like 300  Calvin  right  room  temperature. If  someone  had  a  hazardo  guess, what  would  you  call  P  zero? There  we  go.  One  ATM  or  101325, you  know,  Pascals  there,  right? Yeah.  And  again,  this  is  called, like  Dead  state. In  the  book  I  think  in  the  book  terminology, they  call  it  dead  state  there.  Yeah. So  I'm  ahead  of  my  slides, but  yeah,  that's  in  short, really,  that's  all  you  need  to  know. Right?  That's  it.  So  the  initial  state, you  got  the  dead  state, and  you  got  a  process. And  again, when  we  do  the  analysis, you're  going  to  say,  okay, what's  that  process  that  gives  me that  maximum  workout  given that  initial  condition  and  dead  state,  right? And  the  rest  is  just  math,  right? And  sometimes  it  gets  a  little deep,  but,  like,  don't  lose, you  know,  sight  of  the  fact  of  what the  purpose  of  the  analysis  is. And  I  also  want  to  say  that many  of  these  problems  too, This  is  what  the  book  says. Many  of  these  problems  can  be  solved simply  by  doing  entropy  analysis, getting  S  gen  and  then  multiplying  by  T  zero. So  I  want  to  say, if  you  feel  uncomfortable  with one  approach  there  and you  do  it,  and  it  doesn't  seem  right. Personally,  when  I  work  through these  problems, I  always  do  it  both  ways. And  then  I'm  really  confident  when  I  get the  same  answer  in  both  cases. And  I  can't  stress  enough. It's  not  on  the  exam. Yes,  please.  So  I'll  say  it  another  way. What  happens  when  I  have  he  transfer? Yeah,  so  when  we  talk  about  that, have  I  transfer  heat  into  a  system, what  have  I  done  to  that  system? What  property  have  I  changed? Temperature,  not  necessarily,  but  yes,  fine. Let's  say  it's  a  boiling  process. I  transfer  heat  in. I  have  no  change  in  temperature. What  else  changes?  Entropy. You've  done  something  else,  right? Irreversibly,  you  have  changed  the  system. So  whenever  you  have heat  transfer,  it's  irreversible. It  necessitates  right, a  gradient  in  temperature  there, and  something  changes,  and  it's  gone  forever, right?  Yeah. And  so  one  way,  again, a  lot  of  times  when  we  have something  it's  irreversible, it's  because  you  have  friction. Friction  generates  heat. Heat  is  then  transferred to  the  surrounding  environment, which  is  at  a  lower  temperature. So,  yes,  that  is an  intuitive  way  to  think  about  it. Other  questions?  Yes,  please. Names  Jessie. Temperature. Well,  I'm  saying  that  you measure  in  this  problem  here, I'm  telling  you  there  are  losses,  right? So  you  have  heat  losses  from  here  to the  environment  that  are  there. So  you  definitely  have  you  know, irreversibilities  that  are  in  the  system. When  I'm  answering  his  question, and  this  is the  dangerous  part  about  talking  about NP  because  you're  smart and  you  think  about  all  the  scenarios. A  lot  of  scenarios,  you  will  have You  know,  something  that's  moving. Let's  say,  you  know,  maybe  through  the  air, and  it  has  friction,  right? And,  you  know,  that  or  drag,  right? And  that's  going  to produce  friction  and  heat, and  then  that's  going  to  be lost  in  the  environment. That's  like  a  common  way  to  think about  an  SGN  term,  right? So  you're  generating  entropy  in  that  process. You're  losing,  you  know, maybe  kinetic  energy, and  it's  becoming  transferred as  heat  to  the  environment,  right? Okay. Yes,  please, Ami  Correct. Correct. Nailed  it. Completely  nailed  it.  Yes.  Or  another  way to  think  about  it  is  maybe  I have  some  work  output  that  I  know. Real  work  output  from  the  device,  right? And  let's  say  I  know  the  X  org  that's  now destroyed  from  that  device. How  do  you  think  you could  tell  me  what  would  be the  idealized  irreversible  work of  the  device  if  I  gave you  these  two  quantities? I'm  I'm  asking,  I give  you  you  measure  this  as  the  work  output. Of  the  device  W  dot. And  I'm  telling  you  you  calculate the  rate  of  exergy destruction  of  that  device. And  then  I  say,  what  it  would  be  like the  maximum  work  output  you could  get  from  that  device if  you  didn't  have  losses. Intuitively. Adam.  It's  pretty  intuitive. Yeah,  but  you  set  it  up  very  nicely. Okay. So  basically,  this  is  it. And  where  we're  going  to  ultimately  go with  this  is  you're  going  to  do  things  like, I  want  to  know,  you  know, what  is  the,  you  know, So  if  I  say,  k,  there's  some, you  know,  glorious  you  know, reversible  work  output  from the  system  that's  possible,  right? And  then  there's,  like, the  real  output  that  I  measure,  right? The  ratio  of  them,  we're  going  to  call  is second  law  efficiency  with  it,  right? And  this  is  it,  right? So  second  law  efficiency  says, there's  not  really  idealization,  right? This  is  the  reality  on  the  ground. This  is  what  you've  got,  you  know? You're  not  saying  that  you're  going  to be  Carno  or  something  like  that, but  this  is  what,  you  know,  given your  initial  conditions,  This  is  the  truth. This  is  how  far  you  are  from that  device  basically  being  perfect,  right? The  real  measured  work,  you  know, divided  by,  you  know,  the  reversible  work. And  reversible  work  in erg  speak  would  be  in  this  case. Right?  So  if  we're  going  with the  big  X  destroyed,  right? So  in  this  case,  it's  erg  in,  right? So  the  the  rate  of  erg  transferred  in  then  is going  to  be  equal  to  your  W dot  reversible,  right? 'Cause  that's  what  you  start  off  with? This  is  the  maximum  work  potential that  you  have  or  the  rate  of  it. And  then,  you  know,  that's  going  to be  the  case  there,  right? We're  gonna  go  through  this,  right? So  some  definitions,  some  definitions. So  if  we're  dealing  with  just  like  we  had for  closed  and  open systems  for  the  first  law, we're  going  to  have different  ways  that  we  write the  ways  that  energy  is  transferred in  and  out  in  this  case,  erg. So  for  the  closed  system, if  you  wanted  to  find  the  erg, which  we  note  as  X,  I've been  writing  in  here,  but  erg, right  when  it's  Little  X. Right?  It  has  units  of  kilo  joules or  joules  per  kilogram,  and  big  X. It  has  units  of  just  kilojoules  there. So,  again,  just  like  internal  energy or  enthalpy  and  all  of  that  jazz. And  so  you  write  it  like  this,  you  say,  okay. So  this  is  the  erg  that  I  have  at  that  state. It's  my  internal  energy, minus  the  internal  energy  of my  dead  state  plus the  pressure  of  my  dead  state  times, you  know,  specific  volume, minus  specific  volume  at  the  dead  state, minus  the  temperature  at  the  dead  state. The  difference  of  the  entropy, the  kinetic  energy,  and the  potential  energy  there. Okay.  Again,  I  told you  it  was  Matthey,  but  this  is,  like, you  can  just  absorb  it  and  write  it  on a  cheat  sheet  or  not  a  che  che, on  an  exam,  but  you  can  just  copy  it  into, like,  you  know,  the  notebook or  have  it  in  front  of  you,  okay? Yes,  please.  Name?  H. No.  No,  this  is  math. And  I'm  very  happy  to  go  through  the  math, but  I  did  it  last  year, and  it  was  not  welcome. So  the  book  does  a  good  job. The  book  does  a  good  job. Let  me  ask  it  another  way. So  here, one  could  how  would  you  interpret  that? But  this  is  not  the  T  in  your  process. Where  is  this  T?  This  is  outside. This  is  where  you're losing  things  too,  right? Right?  And  if  I  have losses  in  terms  of heat  from  my  system  to  the  outside? Would  you  expect  to  have  the  same  entropy  as the  outside  state  or  a higher  entropy  than  the  outside  state? So  I  have  a  system,  and  I'm  losing  heat  out. Is  the  entropy  increasing  or  decreasing  of my  control  volume?  Decreases. So  I  have  a  decrease  of  that. Would  you  expect  that  that  entropy value  the  initial  one  to  be greater  or  less  than  the  outside, you  know,  ambient  entropy? Probably. Okay.  So  you  started with  one  where  we  said  we  had a  heat  going  out  and  entropy  decreasing. And  what  I'm  going  to  say  is  that  you should  have  the  expectation that  for  such  a  process, the  entropy  in your  control  volume  should  be  greater than  the  entropy  of your  dead  state  within  that,  right? So  my  assess  is  zero  than within  my  control  volume,  right? And  eventually,  it's  done. And  where  am  I  losing  the  heat  to? Am  I  losing  the  heat  within  my  control  volume or  am  I  losing  it  to  the  environment? The  environment.  And  then  so  how do  I  calculate  that  change in  entropy?  Thank  you. Tina.  We  got  it.  All  right? So  that's  the  close. Then  for  the  open  system,  again, just  like  we  had  for the  flow  devices.  This  is  your  erg. Again,  we  go  to hopes  for  the  same  reason  that  we did  when  we  did  the  flow  work  terms. These  are  just  definitions  that  I'm basically  giving  you  there, and  we'll  work  with  them  in a  little  bit  for  the  next  problem. Okay? So  we  have  one  definition of  erg  for  the  closed  system, one  for  the  open  system. The  final  definition  I  want  to give  you  is  then  the  relationship for  the  RG  of  of  heat.  All  right? Now,  you  can  ask  yourself, what  is  he  talking  about? Like,  I  thought,  'cause right  in  the  case  of  entropy, we  only  had  trop  that  that  was  there, and  that  was a  beautiful  part  of  the  analysis. It's  the  same  also  with  RG,  right? But  to  make  that  happen,  we  have  to have  a  way  of  relating  it. And  this  comes  back  to, you  know,  what  Clausius was  thinking  about  before,  right? So  first  law  says  that,  you  know, we  transfer  energy  in  and out  of  a  system,  you  know,  there, worker  he  transferred  into the  system  once  it's  in  there indistinguishable,  right? But  that's  a  little  bit  problematic when  we  want  to  analyze,  right? And  so,  A  Cassius  thought  about  was, Hey,  what  if  I  could  rank, have  a  way  of  ranking or  somehow  trying  to make  work  in  heat  equivalent, but  I'm  going  to  have  to  have some  type  of  ranking. And  what  he  talked  about,  right,  was, you  know,  essentially  a  Q  by  t,  right? So  if  I  transfer  heat into  something,  you  know, which  has  a  very  high,  you  know,  temperature, that  means  that  it's  going to  be  a  really  good good  quality  of  heat,  right? And  that's  exactly  what  we  express  here. So  the  exergy  of heat,  You  know,  let's  say  here, the  integral  of  one  of  T zero  divided  by  t  d  Q. If  this  is  all  constant, what  you're  going  to  end  up  with  then  is then  the  or  g  of the  heat  is  one  minus  the  ratio of  the  temperature  of the  outside  environment, divided  by  the  temperature of  your  system  times  the  Q. Right?  If  t  is  equal  to  t  zero, what's  the  org  of  heat? Worthless. It  is  worthless,  right? So  heat  that's  at  transferring  heat at  temperatures  that's  like near  sort  of  ambient  conditions, you're  not  gonna  get  very wealthy  right  off  of  that,  right? There's  not  a  lot  to  be,  you know,  to  be  gained. However,  things  that  are,  you  know, a  bit  warmer  than  that  have  utility,  right? So  think  like  hot  water. Alright?  A  you  think  about,  like, Hey,  some  people  talk  about  a  data  center, and  it  makes  all  this,  you  know, consumes  insane  amount  of  electricity, and  it  has  insane  problems  with  like  heat. People  think  seriously  about  trying  to take  that  waste  heat, right  off  of  that  and then  use  it  to  heat  a  building. So  my  former  building  where  I  was  before, the  entire  thing  was  heated with  a  supercomputer.  Alright? Why?  Because  they  did  exergy.  Right? Cool.  So  I'm  gonna  continue with  the  analysis  I  did  there, but  I'm  gonna  do  the  same  thing, but  I'm  gonna  do  it  with  X  R  G  instead of  the  entropy  way  there,  right? Are  there  any  questions before  I  get  started  with  that? All  super  clear?  Wonderful.  All  right. Which  should  I  do?  What's  best? I  think  what's  best  is  if  I  take this  board  back.  Board. All  right.  All  right. Okay.  M  marker  is  here.  All  right? So  just  like  we did  for  the  entropy analysis  of  the  control  volume, we  can  write  the  equivalent  formula for  X  RG,  right? So  D  x  CV  dt  is  equal  to x  dot  minus  capital  X  dot out  minus  x  or  G  destroyed,  right? And  again,  if  I  compare  it  there, this  pretty  much  look  like  the  same  thing, except  that  it's  the  sign that's  different  here,  right? With  the  subtraction  of  the  x destroyed  and  the  addition. And  one  thing  that  I  like, especially  if  you  look  here, this  is  one  of  the  nice  figures  of  the  book, is  it  takes  you  through  a  process  here  if  you transfer  through  a  wall  from one  temperature  to  another, of  conduction,  so  as  a  gradient. Talk  about  the  entropy  transfer. You  have  an  entropy  here,  an  entropy  here, and  then  the  difference  is  what's  generated. Here  it's  the  exact  opposite,  right? You  start  off  at  the  higher  X  Rg, and  then  ultimately, you  end  up  at  the  lower  one. But  these  things  are  like,  in some  sense,  reciprocal, right  reciprocal  properties or  ways  of  thinking. Right?  So  it's  stady  state just  like  before  our  x  destroyed,  right? This  is  zero,  so  our  x  destroyed. Is  equal  to  x  dot  n  minus  r  x  dot  Rx  dot  out. We  go  back  to  that  formula that  I  mentioned  before  for our  flow.  All  right. So  that's  the  x  g  associated with  with  the  flow. Again,  like  the  mass. So  what  we  can  do  is  we  can say  that  x.in  general. Myb  I'll  write  it  up  here  for  clarity. So  x  dot,  like  one  of  these  x.in  or  out. Is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  work  transfer plus  one  minus  t zero  divided  by  t  Q plus  m  dot  times  that  whole  that  whole  thing. What  the  book  calls  that  whole  thing, they  call  it  the  Greek  letter  Pi. So  what  is  the  little  letter  pi  here? And  it's  exactly  what  you'd  have  there. So  it's  the  H  minus  H  zero  plus  minus  t0s minus  S  p  squared divided  by  two  velocity  plus minus  minus  W  squared  divided  by  two plus  g  z  minus  g  z  zero,  right? Great. So,  our  assumptions  are, we  have  no,  there's no  shaft  work  in  our  problem  there. We  have  no  heat  transferred  in, the  no  potential  energy  changes. We  have  heat  transferred out  to  the  environment. All  right.  So  one  thing we're  going  to  recognize  is  that the  heat  transferred,  you  know,  out. So  essentially,  right,  the  X org  associated  with  this  out  here. Maybe  it's  easier  just  to  write. But  basically,  this  we call  it  right  X  dot,  heat, and  This  would  be one  minus  t  zero  divided  by  t  zero, which  is  the  temperature  that we're  transferring  it  to. And  because  this  divided  by  this  is  one, one  minus  one  is  zero. So  essentially,  that  term is  going  to  end  up  being  zero  when  it comes  to  the  out,  right? When  we  look  at  the  t  and  there  is no  heat  transfer  being  transferred  in,  right? Questions?  Okay. So  based  on  based  on  this, Okay. Coming  back  to  the  rate of  change  in  our  control  volume. So  x  destroyed. Rate  of  XG  distraction  is  equal to  the  M  dot  Pi  n.  All  right. So  I'm  going  with  Pi  N  as  I  said  there. Minus.  Again,  because  there is  no  g  for  the  heat  out. It's  just  going  to  be  minus  m dot  C  Pi  out  there.  All  right. And  since  these  are  the  same, right,  you  can  just  basically  right. M  dot  Pi  n  minus  Pi. Right We  can  do  our  substitutions. So  we're  going  to  do  substitutions, and  a  bunch  of  stuff  is  going  to drop  out  when  we  have  that. So  what  we'll  see  is that  this  is  going  to  end  up  being the  dot  times  one  minus  two,  right? Because  the  S  zero, W  zeros,  and  so  on, are  going  to  be  subtracted. So  then  minus  t  zero, S  one  minus  S  two  and  then  plus one  half  times  W  one squared  minus  W  two  squared. All  right.  So  we  know  H  one,  computed  that. We  know  H  two.  T  zero is  the  environment,  S  one  and  S  two. We  determine  from  tables, W  one,  W  two  are  given. And  we  don't  know  M  dot, but  we  can  divide  it  by  both  sides. And  so  what  we  would  have  if  we  did  this, divide  both  sides  by  M  dot, then  you're  just  going  to  have  little  X destroyed  just  like  we  did  before. And  if  you  substitute the  values  in,  as  I  have  them  here, I  have  36.9  kilojoules  per  kilogram.  Okay? Which  is  then  the  same  or  which  was  the  same as  the  one  that  we  determined  in  part  the  xi. Yes,  please. Yeah.  Considering  the  losses  we  have. No,  you  did  the  same,  right? The  only  thing  is  you  rank  it,  right? You  basically  put  everyone  on the  same  appropriate  level. Before  when  we  talked  about  energy, we  didn't  say  if  heat had  a  quality  to  it  or  not,  right? When  we  did  the  first  law  analysis,  right? We  did  second  law  analysis, and  we  started  to  look  into things  like  entropy  generation, then  we  started  to  say,  Okay, this  is  not  maybe  the  most optimal  maybe  the  most optimal  way  of  doing  things, especially  if  I'm  generating a  lot  of  entropy,  right? And  now  I'm  bringing  it  home. What  I'm  telling  you  is  now  I  can go  with  individual  terms. I  can  rank  them  all  on  the  same, you  know,  measure  all  of  them with  the  same  energy  ruler. And  now  you  can  really,  you  know, say  in  a  rational  way  if  this  is the  best  process  or  not  or  what would  it  take  to  become  the  best? So  it's  kind  of  like,  you  know, and  the  main  correction  is that  heat  and  work  they're  equivalent, but  they're  not  equivalent,  right? Right?  It's  energy,  but,  like,  you  know, heat  at  a  high  temperature,  transferred, you  know,  to  a  high  temperature. System  at  higher  temperature  is  worth more  than  one  that  I transferred  to  a  low  temperature. Right? Yeah,  and  that  could  be  a  professional engineering  exam  question,  right? I  could  basically  give  you  a  bunch  of  stuff. And  then  you  could  tell  me,  you  know, what  or  another  way. I  could  give  you all  the  same  initial  conditions. I  could  give  you  one  current  output. And  then  I  would  say,  improve  it  to improve  the  output.  Right,  the  work,  right? That's  what  an  engineers  typically  do. Because  if  you  save  that, right,  you  save  money, that's  money  in  your  pocket,  and  yeah.  Okay. Yeah.  No  on  the  exam,  but  I  think, like  pretty  useful. And  at  least  for  one,  maybe two  of  the  thermal  projects, it  would  be  a  good,  you  know, maybe  a  good  analysis  to do  to  do  there,  right? Good. Yeah.  So  again,  so  just  like  Hon,  right? Yeah.  So,  he  said,  you  know, there  you  know, it's  really  no  different than  what  we're  doing. You  got  a  lot  of  times  a  steady  flow  system. You're  bringing  in  you  know, you  know,  some  fluid  stream  that has  a  very  high  erg  in. This  is  the  erg  out, and  then  this  is  the  destruction  there. As  I  said  before,  you need  it  for  homework,  this  project, and  I  cannot  emphasize  enough, tell  your  classmates  who are  not  here,  or  maybe  don't. You  know,  I  will  not  be  on mid  term  two  or  the  final,  right?  Good. I  want  to  say  one  thing, and  then  I  can  get  into  it. The  one  thing  like  I  said, I  wanted  to  mention before  is  that  there  has  been, you  know, literature  where  people  look  in  it  because like  simple  systems  that  we  do, it's  like  trivial,  right? You  can  look  at  this,  and  with  enough  time, you  can  know  if  something's  better. But  if  you  start  to have  a  lot  of  things  coming together  to  make  good  arguments  that, you  know,  one  design  is  better  than  another, it's  not  really  you know,  you  really  don't  know,  right? You  got  to  get  in  and  follow all  the  steps  to  ultimately,  you  know, determine  something  like an  ETA,  you  know,  two. And  as  I  said,  you  know,  the building  I  was  in  before,  you  can  look  it  up. The  technology  was  called  Aquasar. And  what  they  were  doing  we  were  saying  that, you  know,  these  data  centers, I  mean,  it's  insane. Like,  how  much  energy  that  you  have  from, like,  generative  AI  now,  right? Because  every  unit  of electricity  that  goes  into a  computer  becomes  heat  out,  right? And  the  projections  on  this,  like, before  Open  AI  did  their  thing  was  that our  computational  electricity  consumption due  to  computation  was  going to  double  right  in  the  next  ten  years, which  is  already,  like,  doubling in  energy  is  like  Alright, you  should  already  be  concerned. But  then  with  generative  AI and  what  goes  on  there, we're  not  talking  like  linear. Right?  This  is  like  Malthusian,  you  know, like,  you  know,  you're  getting  like a  geometric  growth  in  the  behavior. U  And  there's  smart  people who  work  on  making  it  so  there's  less  energy, but  they're  hugs,  right? And  so  one  strategy that's  like  looked  at  for  this  is instead  of  taking  like cold  water,  so  you  want  to  cool  this,  right? You're  an  engineer. The  first  thing  you  do,  right? It's  Arizona. The  temperatures  below  80  fahrenheit. You  can  ask  yourself why  the  hell  they  install these  things  in  Arizona. I  don't  have  a  good  answer. They  set  up  all  the  data  centers from  an  ergy  point  of  view. So  you're  there,  it's  below  80  Fahrenheit. They're  gonna  blow  with  fans,  right? Now  it's  about  80  Fahrenheit. That's  not  really  good  for cooling  a  ship  anymore. So  now  they  evaporate  water,  right? So  now  you're  in  a  place  of  no  water, now  you're  evaporating  water, and,  like,  all  that  stuff's  there. It's  like  you  know,  mind  boggling. And  you  think,  how could  you  do  better  than  this? And  so  what  people  have  done, and  you  can  read  about  it, is  they  said,  Okay, the  first  thing  we're  going  to  do  is, we're  going  to  take  these  chips, these  computer  chips,  and  we're not  going  to  try  to  run them  at  low  temperatures. All  right?  So  I'm  gonna  run  them  hot. Now  I  talk  to  your  computer  engineering or  electrical  engineering  buddies, and  they're  going  to  say, Well,  they're  gonna  break. And  you  say,  Well, that's  a  mechanical  problem. We  can  solve  that. You  guys,  you  know,  let's  take  a  seat,  right? And  so  you  solve  that  problem. So  now  you're  on  the  chips,  not  at,  you  know, the  colder  temperature,  but  maybe at  like  65  Celsius. You  say,  good.  And  what you  do  is  instead  of taking  cold  water,  right? Or  air  and  blowing  it  over,  what you  do  is  you  take  hot  water. Alright,  so  you  take  water  that's  already  at a  warm  temperature,  maybe  60,  55. And  you  pass  that  over  the  chip. All  right? And  what's  interesting,  you  know, about  such  an  approach is  that  right,  you'll  have. Alright.  So  this  is  let's  say  you,  done. So  you're  going  to  have your  your  chip  here,  right? There's  some,  you  know, right,  that's  that's  coming  in  from  the  chip. This  is,  let's  say  your  A your  fluid  A  your  fluid  here, you  have  some  dot  coming in  the  same  dot  that's  coming  out. Let's  say  you're  relatively insulated  on  the  rest  of  the  side. I  interesting  to  think  and  then  we  can  say the  whole  surrounding  environment  is let's  say  a  T  zero.  Right? And  if  you  look  back  at that  G  term  that  I  showed you  before  in  terms  of  heat. If  you  were  to  take,  let's say  that  g  associated  with  heat. One  minus  t  zero  divided  by  t  times  Q  Q  dots. If  I  transferred  this  Q to  water  that  was  at  T  zero, there'd  be  no  exergy,  right? There'd  be  no  utility  to  that  heat. You  cooled  the  chip,  but  you  can do  nothing  else.  Right? If,  however,  you  can,  you  know, have  the  temperature  of  this  fluid  here, greater  than  T  zero, you  have  exergy,  right? So  you've  transferred  it  to  hot  water, which  sounds  weird, but  just  hot  enough  water. And  that  electricity  that  you consumed  for the  computation  that  became  heat, because  you  transferred  it  to  a  fluid  that's warm  there,  it's  still  useful. And  you  can  go  and  you  can  eat  a  building and  and  all  of  that. And  so  this  is  like one  example  I  like  to  give, you  know,  on  this  because, you  did  solve  let's  say, you  know,  sort  of  a  first  law  problem in  keeping  the  computer  cold, but  you  did  a  disastrous  job on  the  second  law. And  with  XG,  I  can  tell  you how  to  do  second  law. And  the  cool  part  about  this too  is  if  you  read  the  papers, a  lot  of  times  two, they  put  things  in  the  money. Right?  You  can  at  this  point, you  can  start  to  say  how valuable  the  energy  is, and  you  can  start  to  make  decisions, because  if  you're  an  engineer and  you  have  a  boss, I've  had  plenty  of  bosses. But  normally  what  we're  talking about  there  is  ROIs, two  year  return  on  investment. What  can  I  get  out  of  it? You  know,  What  are  sort  of  the  savings? What  this,  it's  a  very  direct connection  between  this  and  that,  okay? A.  Are  there  any  questions about  that?  All  clear. Okay,  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it. A  few  minutes.  If  you  have  questions, please  come  up.  Happy
