But  first  an  experiment. So  our  guy,  James  Jewell. So  in  the  1850s, he  was  doing  a  bunch  of  stuff  about relating  how  he  would transfer  work  into  a  system. So  he  would,  like,  had  a  paddle. You  know,  we  had  that  in  one of  the  earlier  homeworks. He  was  at  a  weight  and  had a  paddle,  and  that  was  spinning  in  water. Then  he  had  a  thermometer  in  the  water, and  then  he  was measuring  the  temperature  response because  he  was  interested  in linking  mechanical  work  or the  equivalents  of  mechanical  work  and  heat, because  at  that  time,  it  wasn't  no. Right.  He  did  another  nice  experiment  here, again,  a  water  bath  in  the  thermometer. And  in  this  experiment, what  he  did  is  he  took  a  bulb, filled  it  with  air  at  high  pressure. He  had  a  valve,  and  then  he  connected  it  to another  bulb,  which  was  evacuated. So  this  was  a  a  vacuum. And  he  kept  this  whole  thing, then  submerged  in  a  liquid  bath, and  then  he  had  this  thermometer. And  what  he  would  do  is  he  would open  so  he'd  measure  the  temperature  before, and  then  he  would  open  this  valve, the  air  would  move  from regions  of  high  pressure  to  low,  right? You  also  did  simulations  on  that. And  then  he  would  measure the  temperature  response  because  yeah, he  was  interested  to  know  if  this  specific heat  or  if  this  process was  somehow  dependent  on, let's  say,  specific  volume  or  pressure, and  not  just  temperature. So  the  equation  you  would  write. So  if  we  were  analyzing this  system  ourselves  with the  knowledge  we  have  today  on  how heat  and  work  are  transferred, we'd  have  this  Q  net  in  plus  the  W  net equals  to  the  change  in  the  internal  energy plus  the  kinetic  energy  plus the  potential  energy  and how  this  problem  was  set  up. So  if  I  treat this  as  the  control  volume, there's  no  work  in. There's  no  heat  transferred in  And  so  you're  then  looking  to see  then  if  there is  or  there  isn't  a  temperature  response. Because  if  there  is  a  temperature  response, then  there  must  be  something  funny going  on  within  the  system, and  you'll  get  insight  into the  nature  of  the  guess.  All  right. Specifically,  that  the  internal energy  would  then  be  depending on  the  volume  or  the  pressure. That's  what  he  wanted. So  you  can  run  this  yourself. You  can  run  again my  favorite  molecular  dynamic  simulator. So  you  can  run a  similar  simulation  where  you  take  one  side, which  is  evacuated,  on  the  other  side, you  start  to  fill  it  with  your  particles, and  you  release  it. And  what  you  should  monitor here  is  the  change  in  the  temperature. So  the  initial  temperature  that  was  there was  300  Calvin,  okay? And  you  have  in  this  simulation, thermometers  on  two  sides. So  you  have  the  average  temperature  on this  side  and the  average  temperature  on  this  side, and  what  you  should  compare  are  on  average. Again,  there's  statistical  io  fluctuations at  the  scale  collisions,  and  all  of  that. But  what  you  should  be  paying  attention to  is  if  at  the  end  of  it, if  the  temperatures  on both  sides  become  different  with respect  to  the  original  one. Yeah.  Well,  we  can  jump  ahead, thermalize  thermalize  what  I think  you  would  see, especially  at  the  end  there is  that  the  one  side might  be  a  little  higher, maybe  it's  like  306  Kalvin. The  other  one  is  basically  294. But  it's  one  experiment. You  could  run  a  lot  more  yourself, but  a  sort  of  first  glance, I  don't  see  something  sort  that there  was  a  big  change  in  my temperature  when  I  ran  that. And  that's  also  a  Jewel  saw. So  Jewel  of  co more  labor  than  I  did  yesterday  to  make  it. Okay.  What  does  that  mean? That  means,  then,  according  to this  experiment,  if  I  don't, if  I  take  in  this  system,  again, I  don't  have  heat  transfer  in  or  out, I  don't  have  work  transfer  in  or  out. So  according  and  I  don't have  that  change  in  kinetic  energy, I  don't  have  the  change  of  potential  energy. So  in  doing  this  process, if  I  had  a  change  in the  internal  energy  by  only varying  the  pressure  in  the  volume, that  would  mean  by internal  energy  for  this  ideal  gas, as  was  mentioned,  will  be dependent  on  pressure  and  volume. But  from  this,  what  what  he observed  and  what  you  can  deduce  is that  the  internal  energy  of an  ideal  gas  only depends  then  on  the  temperature. Okay. Anyways.  So  we  can  then  start  to, you  know,  get  into  some  useful relations,  with  this  knowledge. So  what  we  can  do  is  we  can  start  to relate  these, specific  heats  to  each  other, so  we  can  start  with  treating this  again  as  an  ideal  gas. So  we  can  start  with  our  P  pressure  times  V, so  that  specific  volume  meter  cube per  kilogram  is  equal to  a  gas  constant  times  the  temperature. What  I  want  to  remind you  is  that  when  I  write  our Like  that,  this  is not  the  universal  gas  constant. So  the  universal  gas  constant  has units  of  Jewes  per  mole  per  Calvin. When  you  see  Um, in  our  textbook  and  in the  problems  that  we  work  with, you're  dealing  with  just  R.  And  that  R has  units  of  joules  per  kilogram  per  alvin, which,  frankly,  for  me  as  an  engineer, is  much  more  convenient. I  have  a  hard  time  even today  dealing  in  moles, that's  a  chemistry  world. So  if  jules  per  kilogram  per  kalvin. And  the  way  that  you  convert  that, the  way  you  go  from  the  joules per  kilogram  per  alvin  to the  ideal  gas  constant  is  you divide  by  the  molar  mass. Something  like,  you  know, nitrogen  has  like  14,  you  know, grams  per  mole,  0.014  kilograms/mole. And  then  you'll  end  up  with  that  value. We  have  the  definition. So  coming  back  so  we  have  the definition  of  the  enthalp, which  was  originally  the  internal  energy plus  the  PV. And  if  you  substitute  these  two  together, you  would  see  that  the  enthalpy  is equal  to  the  internal  energy  plus  the  RT. So  the  message  there  is  not  only  is  it the  internal  energy  that  only depends  on  the  temperature  for  an  ideal  gas, but  it's  also  the  enthalpy. Okay?  Yes,  please. This  case  volume  Specific  volume. So  remember,  little  things  are  specific. So  they're  intensive.  So  I like  to  think  about  it  if  it's  a  big  letter, it's  extensive.  So  it  depends  on  the  size. I  have  a  little  letter. It's  like  a  point,  and  that's  U, and  that's  V,  and  that's  a, and  so  on  and  so  forth,  there. And  the  only  one  that  violates this,  I  think  is  temperature, but  we  would  write  little t  and  all  textbooks  they  did, but  we  write  capital  T  because other  people  do  it. Yes.  So  bringing  it  home, so  we  have  the  internal  energy as  a  function  of  temperature, the  enthalpy  as  a  function of  just  the  temperature. Because  of  how  you  know, we  defined  then  the  CPs  and  the  CVs. What  you  can  deduce  from  this  is  that the  specific  heats  for  the  volume  and the  pressure  also  only  depend  on  temperature. Well,  clarify  more  how  it  is. Truly  ideal  gases  really  don't  vary  at  all, these  are  really  constants. So  for  things  like  air,  it's like  1.4  kilojules  per kilogram  Kelvin,  and  it  doesn't  change  much. You  can  basically  use  that  for most  problems  and  you're  good  to  go. Because  it's  only  depending on  the  temperature,  again, for  formalism,  they're just  ordinary  derivatives  now. This  is  not  like  DU  DDT at  constant  pressure  or, you  know,  or  at  constant  volume or  DHDT  at  constant  pressure. They  just  depend  like  this. And  the  consequence  of that  is  that  for  the  ideal  gas, so  that  initially  nasty  problem that  I  made  into,  like,  a  nice  one. You  can  calculate  the  internal  energy  change for  any  process  in  ideal  gas. It's  just  CV  times  Delta D.  You  can  calculate  the  change  in enthalpy  of  an  ideal  gas between  the  two  states  as  the  CP  and  the  DT. And  that's  the  consequence.  So  technically, if  I'd  given  you  that  information, you  would  have  been  able to  solve  that  problem, but  now  I  know  you're going  to  be  able  to  solve  it because  I  did  it  in  that  order. So  hopefully  that  answers  your  question. Cool.  Yes.  And  so, as  I  said  before,  again, just  to  be  sort  of,  you know,  completely  correct. If  you  were  going  to  then  take  this  change  in the  internal  energy  or  the  change in  the  enthalpy,  right? It's  the  U  two  minus  one or  H  two  minus  H  one, you'd  integrate  from  state  one  to  state two  if  it's  the  internal  energy, the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume, or  if  it's  the  enthalpy,  the  specific  heat at  constant  pressure. And  so  you  would  need  to  know  the  CP of  the  CV  as  a  function  of  temperature. I  can  tell  you  in  practice  in  prac  like this  is  like,  absolutely mathematically  correct. Engineers,  though,  we  like  round,  right? Like,  we're  not,  like, super,  you  know,  ridiculous. So  a  lot  of  times,  you know,  you're  going  to  see  a  problem, and  you  could  probably  first  just take  a  value  of this  because  it's  not  super sensitive  to  temperature. So  where  do  you  get  such  a  value? Tables,  right?  So  you  can  go  through. You  can  be  given  something,  right? Let's  say,  let's  say you  have  a  process  that  starts  at, you  know,  initially,  you  know, 300  uh,  Calvin, so  I'm  looking  at  ideal  gas  specific  heats. So  I  have  my  CP.  Let's  say I  start  off  at  300. I'm  reading  a  CP  of  1.005 kilojoules  per  kilogram. And  let's  say  I  transfer  it  up  to  350. My  next  CP  is  1.008. 1.005  and  1.008  in engineering  are  the  same  number. They  are  the  same  number.  Okay?  So You'll  get  an  interpolation  is  important. It  is  important  certain  gases,  right? They'll  vary  the  CP  will very  strongly  as  a  function  of  temperature. Water  is  one  of  those,  right? That's  actually  the  origin  of,  I  mean, not  exactly,  but  some  of  the  substances, you'll  see  variations  in  the  CP. But  be  reasonable. Look  at  the  first  temperature, look  at  the  final  temperature, look  at  the  CP  or  the  CV. Do  they  vary  by  less  than  1%? If  so,  give  it  a  go, like  as  a  first  shot.  Alright? And  if  it  varies  by  more  than  that, please  start  to  interpolate. If  you  need  to  do  that,  if  you  do  see big  changes  between  that between  state  ones  and  state  two. Again,  you  can  do  what  I  just  said, look  up  at  the  specific  heat at  the  temperature  one, look  at  the  state  of  the  temperature  two. Look  at,  you  know,  the  average temperature  and  interpolate  the  value, the  actual  one  is  there, the  approximation  is, you  know,  is  there. All  right.  And  again,  just  to  bring  it  home, I  wanted  to  sort  of  highlight  again that  Yeah,  I  mean, especially  with  the  CP,  it's not  I'm  seeing  what  is  a  2%? I  see  a  2%  change  over 150  degree  temperature  difference and  the  same  similarly  the  CV. So  just  to  show  you  how  the  variation gets  when  you  get to  really  high  temperatures. So  what  you  can  see  here  is  this  is called  what's called  the  ideal  specific  gas.  I'll  explain. So  let's  say  you  take  a  real  gas, not  an  ideal  gas. What's  an  ideal  gas,  and  ideal  gas is  any  gas  at  really  low  density. So  that  means  you  take  something and  you  bring  it  almost  to  a  vacuum, and  you  look  at  its  properties. That's  what  this  is. This  is  the  specific  heat of  what's  called  the  ideal  gas  specific  heat of  a  real  gas  at  these  low  pressures, as  a  function  of  temperature. Again,  in  the  plot  there, they  put  it  as  a  bar over  it,  such  as  caution. Instead  of  it  being  per  kilogram, that's  per  kilo  mole, and  you  see  it  as  a  function  at  temperature. And  sees  things  like  CO two  are  strongly  dependent  water  vapors, another  oxygen  hydrogen  in  air, to  some  extent,  I  mean,  look at  the  temperatures,  1,000  Kelvin. That's  like  really  fricking  hot,  right? So,  which  may  be important  in  the  process  heat  problem, I  said. But  for  other  ones,  like  these, these  inert  gases,  right, which  don't  interact  at  all, that's  like  dead  flat. So  across  that  whole  thing, you  don't  see  a  big  change. Actually,  the  value  that  you  have  there  is nothing  but  the  sum  of the  ideal  gas  constant  plus, in  this  case,  with  the  helium  plus  the  CV. So  this  specific  heat at  constant  pressure  and  is  equal  to the  specific  heat  of  constant  volume  on a  molar  basis  plus  the  ideal  gas  there. And  it  doesn't  change  at  all  for these  noble  gasses. Again,  there  are,  and  I'm saying  this  for  completeness. I'm  not  sure  if  I'm  going to  say  the  phrase, I'm  not  sure  if  you're  going  to  use  it. You're  all  going  to  shut down  and  now  listen  to  me. Listen  for  a  second.  Those  lines that  I  showed  you  there  have  constants. There's  a  formula  for  it. You  can  substitute  those  constants  in for  all  those  different  values. That  as  a  function  of  temperature. It  is  a  more  accurate  way. Maybe  that's  like  something one  would  do  in  Mat  lab. Like  if  you  had  a  system,  you  might  have a  nice  formula  like  that  and  plug  it  in. You'd  be  more  accurate.  But  yeah. Okay,  so  that's  how  you  that's basically  the  process  of  using  tables or  this  formula  for computing  the  specific  heat of  ideal  gases  or  real  gases.  There. Okay,  so  again,  so I  alluded  to  this with  that  summation  that  I  just  did  there, but  you  can  relate  these  things. Remember  before  I  said, probably  the  specific  heat at  constant  pressure is  going  to  be  greater  than  the  specific  heat at  constant  volume.  You  can  show  this. So  if  you  start  with  the  definition of  enthalpy, and  recall  again  that the  internal  energy  only depends  on  temperature  R  is  a  constant, so  the  enthalpy  only  depends  on  temperature. If  you  take  the  differential  of this,  D  on  the  H, the  U  and  the  T,  you  have  this  form, definition,  DH  is  equal  to  CPDT. DU  is  CVDT.  You  combine  those, you  drop  the  DTs, and  you  have  that  the  specific  heat  at constant  pressure  is  equal to  the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume, plus  your  gas  consonant. When  you  put  that  in  the  molar  form, you  can  add  it, you  can  add  the  8.314 plus  the  CV  when  it's  on  a  molar  basis, and  you'll  get  exactly  that. I'm  telling  you  here  though  that  this  r, again,  is  not  the  jules  per  mole  per  Kalvin. This  is  the  joules  per  kilogram  per  Kalvin, which  you  get  to  by  dividing  the ideal  gas  constant  by  your  molar  volume. So  that's  how  it  looks  like. Final  thing  I'm  going  to  find  for  today, which  brings  me  to  the  end,  unfortunately. Well,  Friday  will  be  then  all  examples hopefully  in  working  out  is  you can  take  the  ratio  of  these  specific  heats, and  we  call  that  the  specific  heat  ratio. We'll  get  to  why  that's  important. It's  just  a  definition  for now  that  sits  with  you. But  it's  something  that's  used  as  an  index. There  was  questions about  relationships  between  P and  V.  How  does  this  index  vary? This  is  going  to  get  into  that. This  is  one  of  those  parameters that's  useful  for  a  process.
