310.  So  I  get  started. So  today,  we're  going  to  switch  over  out of  gas  power  cycles, and  we're  going  to  move  into  vapor,  right? And  then  on  Monday,  we'll  move into  some  combed  combined  cycles. All  right.  So  today,  the  goal  today. On  this  beautiful  Friday, as  we're  going  to  analyze the  most  famous  vapor  power  cycle, which  is  called  the  Rankin, right?  What  is  Rankin? The  Rankin  cycle  is  an  idealized  power  cycle, where  you  use  water as  a  working  fluid,  right? It's  similar  in  a  sense  to  right? It's  analogous  to  what  we  were doing  with  the  Braden  cycle for  when  it  was  a  power  plant, but  there  the  working  fluid  was  air. And  in  this  case,  it's  going  to  be  water. And  The  differences  between  the  two is  that  when  you're  working with  water  for  this, you're  going  to  have  phase  change. And  that  brings  in  some  peculiarities, peculiarities  with  it. The  ultimate  goal  of  this, though,  is,  you  know, when  you're  trying  to  make  something  ideal, you're  going  to  try  to  make  it  better. You're  going  to  want this  to  be  something  that's  like as  close  to  Carno  as  possible. And  so  what  did  Carno  look  like? This  is  not  Jeopardy.  I  don't  have  $100, but  I  can  give  you  a  bag  of  candy. Yes,  please.  Howard  square. It's  a  square  or  a  rectangle,  right? Quadrilateral.  Great. So  I  don't  believe  in  myself. I'm  not  Mendoza.  I'm  not  Mendoza. All  right.  Although,  I have  a  great  starting  offensive  line, it  looks  like. Alright.  So  it's  exactly  right. So  when  you  look  at  the  right, the  idealized  case  here, you  know,  it  looks  like  some  kind of  screwed  up  polygon. But,  you  know,  more  or  less, you're  trying  to  get  towards  something  that starts  to  resemble  a  carno. Where  does  it  resemble  Caro,  right? So  in  our  work  transfer  processes, So  namely  from  our  turbine  with the  workout  or  the  compressor  work  in,  right? Those  are  assumed  to be  isentropic  processes,  right? Us  like  we  had  with  with  the  Carno  cycle. And  similarly,  like  the  carno  cycle, right,  we're  going  to  have  these  heat, you're  going  to  have these  heat  additions  or  you  know, removal,  which  in  the  case of  the  removal  here,  right,  it's  flat. In  the  case  of  the  addition,  there's good  portions  of  it  where  it  is, you  know,  a  a  flat  process,  right? Final  thing  I  want  to  comment  with  this  is that  we  finish  here  with T  basically  with  T  three. So  at  the  end  of  the  heat  addition,  right? We're  ending  up  here  with our  high  temperature  side. This  temperature  here  is  below the  so  called  critical  point,  right? The  temperature  here  is  below the  condition  where  you  start to  have  a  transition  from  liquid  and  vapor, where  they're  no  longer  distinguishable, right? Once  you  go  above  that  point,  it  is  a  fluid. It's  a  supercritical  fluid, but  it's  neither  a  liquid  nor  nor  a  vapor. And  that  one's  called  the  super critical  rank  and  cycle,  right? Yeah. So  elements,  you  have a  pump,  you  have  a  boiler, you  have  a  turbine  in  a  condenser, and  pretty  much  I  mean,  I  know, at  least  as  of  relatively recently  in  Continental  Europe, a  majority  of  the  electricity was  still  produced  with  a  cycle  like  this. So  how  do  you  make  it  happen? So  the  heat  additions  that you  do  here  into  the  boiler, right,  like  hard  coal,  right? You're  going  in,  you're  burning  hard  coal  to boil  off,  you  know,  water. You  know,  essentially,  you  know, you're  looking  at  some  type of  hydrocarbons  that  you're  combusting. There  are  other  people  who  look into  what  are  called,  concentrated  solar. So  the  heat  addition  can  also  be  done with  a  cycle  like  this  where you  take  solar  energy, concentrate  it  and  run a  similar  cycle,  you  know,  there. And  the  final  comment  I want  to  make  about  it  is  that  there  are people  who  also  look  at not  just  this  high  grade  heat,  right? So  heat  that's  transferred from  a  high  temperature. But  some  people  look  at  these  cycles with  transferring  in  low  grade  heat, so  that  means  he  transferred from  kind  of  a  lower  temperature. There  the  working  fluid  is not  water.  They  call  it  organic. So  if  you're  thinking  about, I  have  a  process, I  have  not  super  high  grade  heat, I  still  want  to  get  some  work  out  of  it. A  common,  an  ongoing  research  in this  area  is  with  what's  called the  organic  ranking  cycle,  right? You're  all  awake,  ready  to  go?  Wonderful. Okay,  so,  L  et's  analyze  this. So  what  we're  going  to  look  into in  this  problem  is  we're  going  to look  into  again,  analyzing,  like, kind  of  a  canonical,  you  know, problem  within  the  simple  ideal  ranking. So  here  I  give  you  the  different  sort  of, you  know,  conditions, and  then  sort  of  assume  conditions. I'll  walk  through  those  in  a  um Second.  And  then  out  of  this, what  you're  going  to  evaluate is  the  efficiency  of  the  cycle. And  based  on  the  high  temperature and  the  low  temperature, we  can  compare  this  performance  with respect  to  Carno,  right? So  in  a  typical  problem  given  here, which,  for  example,  like  in mid  term  two,  this  is  fair  game. It's  fair  game  for  me  to think  about  your  second  problem being  analysis  of  some  power  cycle, right?  A  power  cycle. There, what's  a  typical  condition I'm  going  to  give  you? I'm  going  to  give  you  probably  something like  inlet  conditions  to  the  turbine,  right? So  it's  a  high  temperature, high  pressure  coming  off  the  boiler. I'm  probably  going  to  give  you  something  like the  low  pressure  on  the  other  side of  the  turbine. You're  gonna  have some  quality  and  some  pressure. You're  gonna  have  some  quality  that's given  on  the  other  side  of  the  condenser, and  then  you're  going  to  given  some  pressure into  the  boiler,  right? What's  assumed,  right  within  this  for an  ideal  cycle  is  that if  this  device  is  isentropic,  what  do  I  know? Sure.  No.  Next.  No,  wrong.  Next. Okay,  Adiobatic. Sam?  Isentropic.  I'm  not definitely  throwing  it  out  there. You  can  pick  it  up  at  the  end,  right? So  it's  isentropic. And  so  if  it's  isentropic, what  it  implies  is  I  know  two of  the  state  variables  here, therefore,  I  can  compute  all  properties. I  compute  S  three.  If  it's  isentropic, S  four  is  equal  to.  S  three. Beautiful.  Now  with  P  four  and  S  four, I  know  I  have  complete  information  here. What  can  I  determine  at  this  point? So  I'm  analyzing  here  properties. I  don't  want  to  get  into  Q  out.  And  what's a  property  you  think  is  gonna  be  important? Emilia? Anthropy.  Alright.  We're  doing  great  here. I  still  got  a  few  in  the  bag. Amelia's  Candy.  Alright?  Exactly. So  I  got  top  here. What's  the  assumption  that  I  make  across a  condenser,  any  heat  exchanger? Isobaric.  Isobaric.  It's  constant  pressure. We're  rocking  and  rolling  today. Pro,  good  job.  Alright. Exactly.  So  you  have  this  there. Compressors  isotropic,  and  so following  the  same  logic that  we  had  with  the  workout, it's  the  work  in,  right,  to  have  it. Now,  because  it's  isobaric, P  one  is  equal  to  P  four,  you  have  that. The  quality  is  given  with P  one  and  X  one,  you  know  full  states. You  can  compute  enthal  P, but  you  also  know  S  one,  right? And  the  point  is  that on  the  other  side  of  this, S  two  is  unequal  to  S  one. But  the  fact  that  I'm  given  the upstream  pressure  from  the  heat  exchanger, I  know  P  three,  I  know  P  two. That's  it.  Now  I'm  going  to  spend the  next  40  minutes  riding  on  the  board. Everything  that  I've  just  described  to  you with  this  or  if  we  finish  early, then,  you  know,  early  weekend for  Oregon  State,  right? Cool. Any  questions  about  that before  I  get  started? Good.  Yes. The  side. Yeah,  so  we  can  get  into  the  weirdness. It  has  to  do  with  the  fact  that  water's weird.  Water's  weird. Right?  It's  a  strange  substance, but  it's  a  beautiful  substance. You  know,  water  when  it  freezes  has less  density  right  than  when's  a  liquid. So  I  have  an  ocean  a  life  in  there.  Max? One.  Yeah. Here.  But  not  pinned. You  need  a  magnifying  glass. So  you  got  to  break  it  down. You  got  to  get  in  there  real. I  even  put  it  on  a  log  scale, and  even  on  a  log  scale, it's  almost  not  visible. Basically  the  change  there, right,  with  the  compression. But  it  is  a  great  point. I  also  thought  about it  when  I  made  this  plot. What's  interesting,  I  found  from,  like, computing  thess  in  Jupiter  notebooks  is that  it's  almost  like  the  book lies  to  you  a  little  bit,  right? They  show  you  how  these  things  are  like, different,  is  like  cartoonish  stuff. But  then  I  realize,  right,  they want  to  emphasize  that  there is  a  transition  1-2,  and  it  is  vertical. But,  yeah,  I  had,  like,  a  little  bit of  a  fake  news  moment  when  I  was  like, you  know,  looking  at  like,  Come  on,  you  know? And  I  also  searched  for  it, but  it  is  definitely  there. It  is  a  vertical  line, but  like  I  said, on  this  whole  scale  of the  temperature  swings  we  go  through, it's  just  not  that  big.  Austin? A  practice  that  two  that  follows  the  s. So  the  two  to  three  line is  pretty  straightforward,  right? So  the  two  to  three  line  is  right, you  take  you  know, you  take  your  maybe we  can  look  at  basically  this,  right? So  you  take  here,  for  example,  this  liquid, which  is  in  the  sub  cooled  state, right  at  some  pressure, and  you  start  to  add  heat. Start  to  add  heat.  It's  not  vaporizing. This  is  sensible  heating, so  the  amount  of heat  that  I  put  in  is  going  to affect  how  big  of  a temperature  increase  that  I  have. That's  happening  over  the  line of  constant  pressure  here. So  we  have  this  line  of  constant  pressure. At  some  point,  you hit  the  saturation  condition, and  then  you  vaporize,  right? At  constant  temperature,  constant  pressure. Then  you  hit  the saturation  line  on  the  other  side, and  then  you  start  to  make  what's called  a  superheated  vapor,  right? But  it  all  follows  this  isobar. So  actually,  I'm  very glad  they  draw  this  because I  wouldn't  have  been  able  to answer  that  question  without  it. Yeah. I  was  confused  by  the  other  one?  Yeah. Fall  sat  Yeah,  exactly. Yeah,  yeah,  but  they  get  very tight  there  when  you  get  into  it. I  think  there  was  a  question  on  this  side. Yes,  Sam. Okay. You  need  sugar  in  your  life,  man. Okay.  Another  question?  No. Okay.  Yeah,  so  it  does look  it  does  look  a  bit  strange. But  yeah,  it  has  to  do  with  the  fact that  we  do  that. Now,  you  could  make  it  look less  strange,  right? So  you  could  make  this  look  less  strange. Let's  say  more  rectangular. But  the  problem  will  be if  you  now  at  this  point  here,  right? So  you  do  your  heat  addition  process. And  now  you  want  to  do your  work  transfer  process  from here  straight down.  What's  gonna  happen  there? T.  So  I'm  under  the  dome  here. I'm  a  saturated  vapor,  and now  I  drop  the  you  know, I  drop  my  temperature  till  this  point  it's work  out.  Anyone  but  Sam. I  can  go  with  Sam.  But  yeah,  go. Condensation. Condensation.  Alright.  But  where is  that  condensation  taking place  in  which  device? The  turbine. Yeah.  And  what's  gonna  happen  to the  turbine  if  I  start  having condensing  droplets  in  it? It's  not  gonna  work.  Say  it  again? It's  not  gonna  work.  It'll  work, Jackson.  But  why? Simpler  than  that. So  turbines  move  very  fast,  right? These  are  blades  that  move  with  like, incredible  speeds,  right? And  they're  designed  to  be  interacting  with, like,  low  density  fluids,  like  a  vapor. So  something  moving  very  fast, hitting  something  that's  literally  like  air. What's  going  to  happen  to  that? If  instead  of  hitting  air, I  start  hitting  a  bunch  of  droplets,  Amelia? Deform.  And  then  what  happens? Break.  Break  it. Fed  up.  Right.  It's  gonna  erode. A  huge  problem  in  turbines  as  you  get erosion  that  happens  within, and  there  was  a  lot  of  research that  went  into  how  to  design coatings  to  sort  of  deal  with  it 'cause  it  happens  in  all  turbines,  Sam. You  don't  get  to  the  higher  temperature, right,  but  you  could  also  solve  that,  right? We  could  probably  come  up  with  a  higher pressure,  maybe  boiler,  right, get  to  maybe  a  higher  temperature here  and  drop  it, but  you  don't  want  to  be  dealing and  even  in  this  ideal  case,  right? Four  drops  into  the  vapor  dome, you  will  have  some  sort  of droplets  that  start  to  form, but  you're  trying  to avoid  you're  basically  trying  to  do  that. On  the  other  side, if  you  wanted  to  basically  move isotropically  up  to here,  what's  the  problem  with  that? So  if  I  want  to  draw the  line  straight  down  from  this  point here  to  make  it  look  less  weird,  right? Yeah.  Exactly. You  don't  want  to  be  pumping a  multi  phase  system. You  want  to  be pumping  one  phase  or  the  other, you  don't  want  to  be  dealing  with  multi. So  those  constraints,  those  kind  of practical  constraints ultimately  take  our  beautiful, you  know,  geometric  rectangle  and then  make  it  into  I don't  know  what  that  shape  is.  Anyone  know? Ugly.  Ugly. That's  a  good  technical  term  for  it. All  right? Good.  So  let's  go  through  this  now. And  feel  free  to  interrupt  and  call me  out  if  you  have  a question  while  I'm  doing  it. But  this  is  the  simple  cycle  that  has these  four  components,  right? We  were  given  those  I  basically states  that are  there  officially  in  the  problem. You  know  what  I  would  say  you'd  be given  would  be,  this  T  three. All  right.  You'd  be  given  a  P three  in  a  P  four. So  I  have  t3p3,  P  four. You'd  be  given  X  one,  right  there. And  you'd  also  be  given No,  that  would  be  it,  right? So  this  is  basically  the  information  that you'd  be  given,  what  you  would  infer. Alright,  is  that  for  heat  exchangers,  right? The  Del  essentially,  the  Delta  P is  assumed  to  be  zero,  right? So  we  assume  that the  pressure  at  the  inlet  and the  exit  of  heat  exchangers  is  the  same. So  this  implies  that  our  P  two  is equal  to  our  P  P  three, and  then  the  same  then  for  the  condenser. P  one  is  equal  to  your  P  four, right?  Yes,  All  right. And  some  of  this  might  make  sense. So,  for  example,  with  the  condenser, that  actually  is  not  really unreasonable  because  you're basically  condensing  the  vapor. You  start  off  usually  with  right, some  kind  of  a  saturated  mixture, mostly  a  vapor,  and  you  bring  it  all  the  way down  to  a  saturated  liquid. So  in  that  sense,  it's  actually  pretty plausible  that  you  would have  that  you  would  have  that,  right? And  what's  the  final  one?  And  then,  yeah, then  the  other  part  is  then  what  you  need to  infer,  right?  Is Or,  like,  to  determine  and  then  apply  is from  the  T  three and  the  P three,  you're  going  to  get  an  S  three. And  then  right  across  that  device, you're  going  to  say that's  going  to  be  S  four. And  then  with  the  S  four  and  the  P  four, right,  you  have  everything,  right? The  complete  complete  information  about  that. And  then  the  final  state would  be  then  right  with  this X  one  and  the  P  one, you're  going  to  get  your  S  one, enter  P  determined  out  of  that. And  if  that  pump is  then  operating  isentropically, S  one  is  equal  to  S  two. And  then  with  S  two,  and  the  fact  that P  two  is  equal  to  P  three,  right? We've  solved.  You  basically have  solved  for  state  two. So  state  two  is  good. State  four  is  good, State  three  is  good, and  state  one  from this  is  also  good.  All  right? Yes,  please.  M  in  the  boiler  P  two  fit  three, is  when  you  have  an  expansion  like  that, what  do  you  expect  an  increase So  the  boiler  doesn't  expand,  right? So  all  you  have  in  the  boiler  is you're  really  starting  with  a  liquid, and  I  mean,  you're  boiling  it. Yeah. Yeah,  you're  basically  You're vaporizing  water  with  it. But  the  assumption  that  you make  right,  during,  you  know, and  this  was  the  case  for  any of  the  heat  exchanges  that  we  analyzed, as  we  said  we  had  no  basic pressure  drop  across  it. Again,  the  other  thing I  want  to  emphasize  there is  that  you  have the  opposite  of  condensation,  right, you  have  a  huge  portion  of  this  part  where you  absorb  the  heat  that is  a  vaporization,  right? So  the  temperature  and the  pressure  are  going  to  be  constant, no  matter  what  in  a  case  like  that. The  temperature  obviously  varies,  right? From  the  state  of  the  subcooled  liquid into  the  superheated  vapor. But,  you  know,  for  a  good  chunk  of  that, the  process  is  a constant  pressure  on  its  own, no  matter  what  it  would  be, but  in  this  device, because  it's  a  heat  exchanger, we  say  the  inlet  and  the  outlets are  the  same  pressure.  Alright? Good.  Okay. So  that  sets  us  up.  And  as  I  said  before, what  I'd  recommend,  you  know, in  sort  of,  you  know, solving  problems  like  this is  to  really  figure  out  these, like,  inlet  and  outlet  states  of  the  devices, look  for  these  kinds  of  patterns  within  it and  ultimately  be  able  to  with  knowing, you  know,  all  the  information at,  for  example,  you  know, State  one  to  three  and  four, give  me  those  First  of  all,  draw  a  diagram, to  find  that  diagram,  to  find  the  states, and  then  tell  me  what  you're  going  to compute  out  of  it,  right? So  your  S,  right? So  here  we  have  the  S three  that  we're  figuring  out. Here  we  have  the  S  one  that  we're figuring  out  from  it. The  other  ones  we've  already  written. But  then  what  you  need  to also  figure  out  for  most  of these  devices  is  right  the, the  enthalpies  there,  right? And  the  reason  why  you  need  to  know, the  hopes  is,  a  system. Each  of  those  devices, the  pump,  the  boiler  turbine  and  condenser. These  are  steady  flow  devices,  right? And  so  if  you're  interested  in  heat  addition or  heat  transfer  or  work  transfer  processes, all  those  are  m  Delta  Hs,  right? That's  all  they  are,  right? All  right,  so  we  can  start  with that  with  the  pump. So  again,  if  I  was  drawing,  you  know, that  diagram  there,  this is  let's  say  your  pump. All  right,  I  have  this coming  in,  this  coming  here. I  have  my  state  one,  I  have  my  State  two. All  right,  I  go  and  I  draw. You  know,  you  basically  go  and  you have  your,  you  know, control  volume,  you  know, around  your  pump,  right? So  for  this  problem,  right, I'm  assuming  that,  you  know, it's  a  steady  state. Process,  I'm  neglecting  KE  and  PE  terms. What  this  does  then  for  for this  CV  applied  to  the  mass. So  the  DM  CVT, is  m.in  minus  your  dot  out. It's  steady,  basically.in  is equal  to  M  dot  is  equal  to  MM  dot. Great.  For  the  same  CV, you  have  your  rate  of  energy  change,  D  CVT, is  your  e.in  minus  your  e  dot  out, or  the  dot,  again,  just  to  remind  you, this  is  Newtonian  notation  of  derivatives. So  if  I  ever  write  a  dot, what  it  means  is  that  it's  d  dt. All  right,  This  is  also  steady.  All  right. So  your  e  dot  is  equal  to  your  et, your  e  dot  t.  All  right? It's  like  a  switch  or  something. So  what  are  the  mechanisms  of energy  transfer  for  a  device  like  this? I'm  only  going  to  do  it  for  the  first  one, and  then  I'm  going  to  assume it  applies  for  the  turbine. Right?  The  way  we  can  bring  energy  in  is work  transfer  W  dot  plus  Q  dot  n  plus  m  dot, right,  which  we  know  it's just  going  to  be  M  dot. Plus  the  enthalpy  entering,  right? Which  is  state  one, H  one  plus  the  velocity  one  square  divided  by two  plus  G  Z  one  is  equal  to plus  q  dot  plus  m,  right? What's  the  exit,  the  exit  is  at  two, H  two  plus  W  two  square  divided by  two  plus  g  z  two,  right? And  so  what  goes  away,  right? So,  again,  we  neglected  the  KE  and  the  PE, so  our  velocities  will  go  away. We  know  that  those  things  only  become appreciable  when  we  deal  things like  diffusers  or  nozzles, where  we're  strongly  decelerating  or accelerating  a  fluid  just like  in  the  jet  propulsion  problem. And  this  pump  here's So  it's  This  is  idealized. So  when  this  is  an  idealized  case, we're  in  tropic,  and  I  think  there  was a  point  made  about  adiobatic  with  it. What  would  happen  to  our  entropy change  if  we  had  basically, like  an  irreversibility  there or  maybe  like  some  heat  generation? Jackson?  Exactly. Yeah,  basically  a  change. You  wouldn't  have  this  assumption  that  of the  entropies,  you  know,  being  there. What's  also  implicit  in that  is  that  we  don't  have any  heat  transfer  that's occurring  with  this  device,  right? I  don't  know  if  that's  double  jeopardy for  you,  Jackson,  but  right. And  then  this  is a  work  transfer  in  process,  right? So  here  in  this  control  volume,  right? We  have  a  W  dot  that's coming  into  the  control  volume,  in  addition, right  to  the  m.in  and  the  dot out  streams  that  are  entering  and  exiting. So  there  is  no  dot  out  that  goes  away. And  ultimately,  what  you're  A  you're left  with  is  that  the  W  dot, and  I'll  move  this  to  the  center  in  a  second, but  your  W  dot  n  is  equal  to m  dot  times  H  two  minus  H  one,  right? And  if  you  ever  need to  check  yourself  with  that, an  important  thing  to  think  about is  what  do  you  expect, right,  the  energy  of this  fluid  to  be  after  this  process,  right? If  I  just  think  about  a  first  law  analysis, here  I'm  starting  with  something. I'm  injecting  energy  into  it, so  I  should  have  an  expectation  that the  enthalpy  at  the  exiting should  be  larger  than  what  enters. So  here  I  have  M  or  W  dot,  right? That's  a  positive  quantity. So  I'd  have  an  expectation  that H  two  is  greater  than  one,  right? And  M  dot  is  a  positive  value,  right? So  that  kind  of  makes  sense  for  me. But  I  always  recommend  that  when  you're solving  just  to  orient yourself  in  that  way,  right?  Good. So  that  takes  care  of  the  Wt,  right? So  step  one  is  good, right,  on  our  road  to  network. Good. Now,  the  next  thing  we  need  to  figure  out is  let  me  write  one  other  thing. All  right,  this  is  capital  W. If  we  divide  both  sides  by  M,  right? This  would  basically  be  LW  N  is  equal  to H  two  minus  H  one.  Alright? Or  W  pump  in.  I'm  just  writing  WN  for  that, right?  So  that's  good. If  we  apply  now  that  same  thing to  our  turbine. So  if  I  draw  the  turbine  now, skip  over  the  heat  exchanger  for  a  second. So  I  have  a  turbine  here  with some  mass  coming  in.  This  is  S  three. I  have  some  m.in,  right?  This  is  M  dot. This  is  a  stat  four. I  have  a  W  dot  out. Coming  there.  If  you  ever  have questions  about  how  to  draw  a  turbine, the  point  is  that you're  coming  in  with,  like, really  a  high  pressure, you  know,  vapor,  and you  need  to  expand  that  to  get  work. So  actually,  whenever  you look  at  one  of  these  things,  right, the  fluid  comes  into the  most  compressed  part  of the  turbine  and  then  expands  through all  these  different  blades  and  then  exits  at the  most  expanded  parts. I  can  draw  a  control  volume  here for  this  device.  Right. And  we  can  analyze,  again, just  like  we  did  before,  how mass  is  entering  and  leaving, this  control  volume,  and  also  how the  energy  is  entering  and  leaving. Maybe  I'll  go  to  the  Zoom  dot. We  can  look  at  the  same  formula. So  again,  first,  we  look  at the  M  dot  part  of  it. Steady  flow  device,  what enters  is  equal  to  what  leaves, so  we  call  that  M  dot. It's  the  same  M  dot  that  we had  through  the  pump. Same  part  then  with  the  energy,  right? Steady  states  of  e  dot  N is  equal  to  e  dot  out. But  we're  just  going  to eliminate  some  different  terms. So  again,  in  the  case  of  the  turbine, the  only  thing  that's going  to  be  different  is instead  of  a  W  dot, or  aw.in,  it's  going  to  be  a  W  dot  out. And  then  we're  just  going to  change  this,  right? So  what's  entering  is  at  State  three, and  what's  exiting  at  at  state  four,  right? So  if  that's  the  case,  All  right. So  your  Wt  is  then going  to  be  equal  right  to  your  M  dot. And  this  is  going  to  be  H  three minus  H  four,  right? The  order  is  now  reversed,  right? Before  was  two  minus  one,  now, it's  three  minus  four.  Why  is  that? Right?  This  is  a  work  out  process. So  the  expectation  is  that the  fluid  entering  should  be possessing  higher  energy  than the  fluid  leaving,  right? So  you  would  think  that  H three  then  should  be  greater than  H  four  for  that  to  work. And  indeed,  we  have the  W  dot,  and  that  difference. If  you  divide  both  sides  by  All  right,  M  dot. Then  what  you're  going  to  get  is  W  is equal  n  to  H  three  minus  H  four. So  now  we  have  the  outs  and the  s.  So  now  what  do  you also  know?  Network,  exactly. So  now  what  you  know  is  the  network, W  net  is  equal  to  your  W  minus  your  W  N. And  that's  very  good because  ultimately  what  we're trying  to  get  to  is the  thermal  efficiency  of  this. Which  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  W  net  divided  by  the  Q  the  QN. Good.  All  right. So  the  last  thing  we  need  to  know  then is  the  QN  for  it. And  then  I'll  comment  a  little bit  about  the  I'll  make a  comment  about  Q  comments. All  right,  at  the  end,  right? I  am  out Alright, so  the  que  So  the  queue  in  then  is,  again, we  can  follow  the  same  um  And  we  can  follow basically  the  same  analysis  that  we  had  here. So  come  back  to  our  equations. Om.in  is  our  M  dot,  which  is  M  dot. Our  e  dot  n  is  equal  to  our  e  dot  out. In  the  heat  exchanger,  right? We  don't  have  work  transfer  processes. We  don't  have  heat  transferred  out. We  only  have  heat  transferred  in,  right? So  your  equation  then  is  the q.in  is  going  to  be  equal  to  the  M  dot. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  multiplied  by  H three  minus  H  two. Again,  just  to  orient  yourself. You  know,  you're  putting  energy  into that  control  volume, and  now  I'm  getting  sloppy  because I  haven't  even  drawn  the  control  volume. Points  off  for  me. So,  you  have  your.in,  right? You  have  your  M  dot  out. We  have  a  Q,  write  aq.in, which  is  happening  or  right,  just  a  Q  in. If  you  want  to  write  it  that  way. There's  your  The  control  volume. So  the  dot  N  is  the  dot  out. That's  good,  no  change  in mass,  the  control  volume. And  there's  no  change  in  the  energy,  right? So  this  is  your  H  three.  This  is your  H  two  properties  that  you've  determined. And  so  this  QN  is  then going  to  be  equal  to  the  M  dot  three, which  we  would  assume  is  possessing higher  energy  because  you  have  heat coming  in  after  the  H  two. You  divide  again  both  sides  by  M  dot. Right?  We  have  a  QN  is  equal  to  H three  minus  R  two. Right?  So  then  if  we  come  back  to the  efficiency  formula,  right? So  what  this  implies  then  is the  thermal  efficiency  of  this  cycle,  right? We  said  it  was  W minus  R  W  N.  Divided  by  our  Qn. W  was  three  minus  four. This  is  then  minus  the  W  n, which  is  H  two  minus  H  one, and  then  that's  divided  then  by  our  Qn, which  is  H  three  minus  two. Good.  Yes,  Amelia. One  more  time.  So  we  can  look  at  it. So  for  this  question,  what  I'd  prefer. So  the  question  is  about  the  why  I represent  QN  in  this  way. What  I'd  like  to  do  is  to  draw a  control  volume  around the  entire  power  plant. So  here  I  have  my  power  plant  here. Boiler  here,  pump  here. Condenser  here  and  like  that. I  have  WN  W.  I  have  QN. I  have  Q  out. All  right.  I'll  draw  my  control  volume like  this.  All  right. So  if  the  conditions  are  steady, what's  being  added  here, I  have  a  W  n  plus  a  Q n  is  equal  to  my  W  plus  my  Q  out. And  so  you're  saying  the  W  minus  the  WN, is  equal  to  M  QN  minus  my  Q. So  if  you  wanted  to do  it  that  way,  you  could. And  so  then,  how  would  that affect  our  efficiencies  W  minus  WN  is then  our  QN  minus  our  Q  divided  by  Qn, which  is  equal  to  one  minus  Q by  Qn,  just  for  the  fun  of  it, Q  is  four, minus  one  divided  by  Qn, which  is  H  h  three  minus  h  two. So  you  could  also  do  it  that  way. Yeah.  But  then  to  get  to  it, what  I  would  say  is,  you  know, just  think  about  then  the  energy  balance where  you  look  at  the  entire  system, you  know,  write  the  first  law  for  that  whole, you  know,  steady  control, you  know,  volume  there. And,  you  know,  just  recalling,  you  know, the  definition  of  efficiency, which  is  the  network  out  by  the  heat  in. You  could  definitely  write  it  in such  a  way.  Other  questions,  Max. We  do  have  Okay. So  my  question  to  the  audience, it's  a  good  question, but  my  report  is, what  are  you  assuming  if  you  do  that? So  I'm  talking  about changes  in  entropy,  right? Cold  air. Yeah.  And  then  what's  within  cold  air? What's  the  working  fluid  that we're  working  with  usually  there? I  with  air,  right? So  yeah,  you  could  think  about. And  then  I  want  to  get  to  the  next  question, which  is,  when  we  talk  about  CPs, any  specific  heat, If  I  transfer  heat, how  do  I  want  to  put  this? It's  Friday.  I'm  cooked. So  there's  two  things,  right? So  there  are  systems where  where  I  transfer  heat  in, and  I  get  a  Delta  T,  right? Right?  I  can  put  heat  in,  right? I  have  a  Delta  T,  and  then  we rate  that  with  a  C.  What  are processes  where  I  put  heat in  all  heat  transfer  processes  like  that? That's  my  question.  Is  it always  the  case  that  when  I  put heat  in  that  I  get  a  temperature  change? A  change  Face  change,  exactly. So  we  have  the  collective  intelligence  today, right? So  you  have  exactly  that. So  there,  it's  a  latent  heat,  right? Or  a  difference  in  enthalpies,  right? So  if  I  start  off  with something  that's,  you  know, at  an  enthalp  some  pressure in  equality  that's  equal to  zero,  it's  a  liquid. And  then  I  go  to  something  that has  an  enthalp  equality  of  one, right  at  the  right  at  the  same  pressure. I'm  going  to  have the  same  temperature  the  whole  time, but  you're  going  to  absorb  a  lot  of  heat. You're  going  to  release  a  lot  of  heat. And  that's  exactly  what  happens  in the  boiler  in  the  condenser. And  in  fact,  in  the  case  of  the  condenser, there  is  no  change  in  temperature because  you're  essentially  going from  the  state  of  a  saturated  vapor to  a  saturated  liquid  through  it. And  that's Pace  change,  right? And  that's  part  of,  like, why  this  is  great  'cause, you  can  put  in  tremendous  amounts  of  heat and  remove  tremendous  amounts  of  entropy, right  from  that  system  with, you  know,  smaller  devices,  right? Cause  you  have  face  change, heat  transfer  coefficients, which  you're  going  to  learn  later  on. Gonna  be  very  high  with  it. What  you  know  for  now, it's  just  that  you  get  huge  changes  in enthalpy  across  those  devices,  right? Other  questions? So  isentropic  relations.  Spell  it  out  for  me. Yeah. So  there  when  we  worked  out the  isentropic  relations there,  we  started  from? We  started  from  well, we  started  from,  like,  first  law,  right? DU  is  Delta  Q  minus  Delta W.  You  know,  what  did  we  put  in  for  this? Say  it  again.  TDS,  right? You  have  a  TDS  that's, you  know,  coming  into  here. What  did  we  do  for  the  work? Yeah,  I  was  like  a  PDV  and  I  think  maybe even  a  VDP  potentially with  it  and  a  DU,  that's  great. And  what  was  the  next  step?  I. But  the  point  is  what  you do  after  this  step  is the  next  step  that  you  make  is ideal  gas,  right? Because  you're  going  to  get  into  all  of this  having  to  have  relationships between  V  and  P  V and  P  there  to  be  able  to  do  it. So  the  point  is  that  when  you  think  of a  relation  like  this, what  should  hold  is that  right?  It's  just  a  gas. Are  you  dealing  with  basically  a  gas or  an  ideal  gas  in  this  case,  there,  right? Okay,  you  need  essentially an  equation  of  state  to  be  able  to  relate, one  of  these  property  values  to  another  one, because  at  the  end  of  it,  you  want  Ts  and  Vs, Vs  and  Ps,  Ps  and  Ts. But  if  you  don't  have  an  equation  of  state, which  water  doesn't  have  PV  NRT, it  has  a  big  one,  right? It's  not,  you  know,  It's  not  going  to  work. Alright?  I  think  I  saw  hand  raised  over  here? No.  Okay,  llucinating  at  the  end  good. Alright.  So  this  is, so  this  takes  care  of  the  efficiency  formula. What  I  want  to  do  now  though  is to  comment  a  bit  about the  actual  efficiency  values that  we  got  with  this. All  right.  So  if  you  put  this  all together  and  you  substitute, maybe  I'll  put  it  up  here  in the  upper  rights  for  visibility. If  you  go  in  and  substitute  these  values, which  you  can  find  everything  in that  script  if  you  pull  it  there  for  water, is  the  value,  in  this  case  is approximately  26%  for  this  ideal  ranking basically  for  this  ideal  ranking. Cycle.  All  right.  I  have some  other  details  too  about  the  condensers. So  there's  some  terminology  in  the  textbook. I'm  not  really  familiar  with  it, but  they  talk  about  boiler  duty, essentially  the  Q  in,  condenser  duty, you  know,  the  Q  out  that  comes  with  it. So  these  values  are  also  given  with  it. What's  also  instructive  is  to  look at  the  carno  efficiency,  right. So  carno  is  by  definition  equal  to one  minus  T  cold  by  T  hot. A  T  Cold.  Did  I  print  it  here? I'm  not  sure  if  I  printed the  T  U  the  T  value. So  I'm  going  to  leave  it  out, but  I  did  compute  it. The  value  that  I  have  for the  carno  efficiency  of  this  problem  is 40  is  41  is basically  approximately  equal  to  41%. What  I  can  comment  on,  maybe Kartik  doctor  Regula  gata  can  tell  me, but  my  understanding  is  for most  modern  thermoelectric  power  plants, like  26%  is  like  hot  garbage. Like,  that's  a  very  bad  value. 41%  is  even  not  that  great. I  think  most  of  them  are  like  pushing close  to  50%. Now,  the  way  to get  to  that  we'll  cover  on  Monday. So  basically  on  Monday, we're  going  to  talk  a  little  bit  about reheat  regeneration  cycles  and how  to  move  up, you  know,  how  to  basically  move  up  and  get closer  to  sort  of  car  you  know, carnal  values  with  it. Finally,  I  want  to  mention  today, so  what  I'll  take the  next  few  minutes  to  talk  about. What  should  I  erase? Hmm.  Maybe  I'll  write  on  this  side  here, give  this  side  of  the  room  some  love.  So, Is  that  this  process  in  the  condenser  here? All  right.  So  you  can  take  this  heat  Alright. So  you  can  ask  yourself, we  did  this  exercise before  where  we  said,  Okay, we'll  just  put  heat  in,  and we'll  try  to  get  work  out,  right? And  we  looked  at  this  on  the  TS  cycle, and  what  you  saw  is  that  if  you  didn't have  this  right  removal  of  heat, and  you  just  jumped  right  back  to the  pump,  you  know,  right, your  TS  diagram  would  do  something  like  this, so  that's  a  heat  addition. You  know,  work  out.  If  you don't  take  that  entropy  back  out, what  happens  is  that  you  essentially  move back  up  the  process,  right? And  so  there's  no  difference within  the  cycle,  there  is  no  work. So  you  need  to  do  that. You  need  to  right? With  adding  heat  in,  you put  entropy  in,  right? And  then  you  need  to  take  basically this  entropy  out,  right? To  then  go  back  to that  pump  and  make  the  cycle  work. So  this  section  where  you  take the  heat  out  is  essential  if  you  want  to have  a  network  that's  not  if  you want  to  have  any  network  at  all. And  the  way  that  this  is  done, is  basically  two  ways. So  one  way  you  can  do  this  is you  can  take  air,  right? You  can  take  air,  and  you  can  blow that  over  these  condensers. And  when  I  talk  about  these  condensers, they  are,  I  mean,  they are,  like,  huge,  right? So  what  they're  called  shell  and  tube. So  shell  and  tube  It's  like  this. Like,  imagine  a  bunch  of  pipes  that  are  all, you  know,  parallel  to  each  other, maybe  like  the  length  of the  room  into  the  top. This  is  where  that  steam  that comes  out  of  the  back  end of  the  turbine  comes  in. So  that's  at  stat  right,  state  four. And  then  this  condenses, you  get  a  little  droplets  that condense  or  films  of  water  that  condense. They  drip  down,  and  then  they  drain, right?  And  so  that's  on  this  side. The  point  is  though  what  sent  down  the  tubes, you  can  think  about  like  blowing air  to  potentially  cool. Some  places  will  do  that. But  for  the  most  part,  what  you do  is  you  take  groundwater, right?  Say  ground  water. And  in  the  United  States, about  50%  of  all  the  water  we take  out  of  the  ground goes  through  that,  right? And  then,  you  know,  so  50%  comes out  goes  through,  right? I  transfer  heat,  right?  From  that  steam. I  condense  the  water,  and  then  you  like, put  it  back  into  the  ground. That's  not  consumption,  right? That's  essentially  like  using it  to  cool,  and  it  goes  back  in. In  terms  of  consumption  in  the  United  States, is  about  70%  of  the  overall  water goes  into  like  agriculture,  right? So  this  whole  business  of  being, you  know,  taking  the  water  out, putting  it  in,  putting it  sort  of  back  into  the  ground, you  know,  with  some  maybe some  minor  losses,  right? That's  energy,  call  that  the  energy. And  the  fact  that  we  need  to use  the  water  to  do  that  cooling, we  call  this  basically  the  water  energy  nexus or  water  energy  agricultural  nexus. Why  does  it  matter? Because  every  year,  we  have  more  people, we  have  more  consumption  that  comes  with  it. We  need  more  electricity. You  need  more  food,  right? That  goes  into  the  70. And  so  these  things  start  to stress  each  other,  right? And  so  this  stress  base  is a  whole  area  of  research  that  goes  into  and analyzes  and  looks  at these,  you  know,  problems. Because  if  eventually,  right,  you use  up  all  of  your  water,  right, you're  not  going  to  have anything  to  basically  cool  this, that's  going  to  create,  like, a  pretty  bad  situation. One  of the  most  important  problems  that's  look  well. Now,  I'm  like,  um how  dot  say  this?  It's  not  self  promotion. But,  like,  the  point  is,  like  what I  believe  is  a  very  important  problem unaddressed  in  this  area is  the  fact  that this  water  that  you  bring  out, it  fouls  right,  the  inside  of  these  pipes. So  fouling, right  is  like  unwanted  deposition. You  look  at  windows  like  it's  dusty. I  never  rains  here,  right,  everything's just  like  covered  and  stuff. But  on  the  inside  of  these  pipes, what  happens  is  that you  take  this  cooling  water  out, and  contains  a  lot  of  calcium, right,  calcium  is  great. It's  good  for  us,  but  it's  like  plaque. It's  like  cholesterol  for  machines. If  you  look  like  what the  solubility  of  this  is  as a  function  of  solubility  of  this  stuff, as  a  function  of  temperature, calcium  minerals  like  limescale, they  become  less  soluble. So  you  take  this,  you pass  the  stuff  through  the  tube. This  is,  let's  say, the  inside  of  one  of  those  tubes. I'm  passing  water.  And  you start  to  do  these  little  layers. These  little  like  deposits  like plaque  of  a  mineral  calcium  carbonate. It's  also  called  limescale  calc. And  what's  interesting  is  that  if  you get  a  layer  that's  about  1  millimeter  thick, the  overall  power  plant  efficiency. So  that  number  I  talked  about  there drops  by  about  1.5%. All  right?  And  you  can  ask yourself,  does  that  matter? Right? And  what  I  would  tell  you  is  that  in  like, huge  continental  level  consumption,  right? So  700  terawatt  hours  of electricity  is  like  consumed  by populations  like  400  million  people,  right? That's  us.  If  you  take  this  1.5%, and  you  say  that  half  the  electricity  comes from  steam  electric,  like  Rankin  style. There  with  a  good  fraction, you  know,  consumed  with  hard  coal. So  I  was  in  Europe, there  was  pool  and  all  of  that. For  those  types  of  plants, it's  like  an  extra  8  million tons  of  hard  coal, you  have  to  burn because  of  this  little  layer. Because  it's  not  like the  power  plant  operator calls  up  your  home  and  says, Look,  I  got  this  layer. I  got  to  downrd  the  plant. Can  you  turn  off  your  lights? That's  not  how  the  world  works,  right? So  you  go  in  and  you  burn  the  rest  of  this. This  is  like  50  a  ton, so  you  have  something  that's  north  of  a  half $1,000,000,000  for,  like,  little  stuff. And  people  don't  really  know,  right? It's  like,  you  know,  one  of  the  last  sort  of really  unaddressed  problems  in  that  area. But  if  you  want  to  look,  like  I  said, this  is  kind  of  an  interesting ongoing  research  work  that happens  within  this  challenge of  water  energy  nexus. Good.  Great. With  that,  I'm  gonna  close  it. Those  of  you  got  candy. Come  grab  it.  We'll  have  new  ones  next  week. My  wife  got  another  bag, so  right,  there's some  extras  that  people  want  it,  okay? Thank  you.  Have  a  good  weekend.
