All  right,  I  got  310. So  we  got  some  ground  to cover  to  this  and  that,  right? So  the  first  thing  I  want  to mention  is  with  Perry  test. We're  going  to  do  kind  of  like  a  practice, not  an  exam,  but  a  chance for  you  to  figure  out,  like, location,  sort  of  the  mechanics  of  it, September  11  and  12th  from  it. So  if  you  go  to  this  website  down  here, it  looks  like  19  of  you already  did  that  successfully, you  should  be  able  to register  for  one  of  the  slots. There. I'm  not  going  to  take  comments  at  this  time, but  maybe  at  the  end,  we  can discuss  if  there's  questions. If  you  have  an  issue  with the  Senate  e  mail  to me  or  the  GSI  about  it. Major  learning  objective.  So  again,  for  now, we're  talking  about  first  law  and  solving some  simple  problems  using the  first  law  there. In  terms  of  the  nitty  gritty  after  today, you're  able  to  define  the  concept  of  work, introduce  the  first  law, some  energy  balances  and  talk about  how  fluid  flowing across  a  control  surface. Basically  a  new  control  volume  is going  to  be  able  to  carry  energy  with  it. I'm  going  to  have  a  minor  comment about  efficiencies  there. Okay?  So  energy  transfer  by  work. So  here  again,  on  the  left, I'm  drawing  for  you  a  system, the  red  dash  lines. I'm  defining  a  control  volume  there, and  When  we  talk  about  this  process,  right? To  have  initial  state  of  a  final  state, and  I  do  something  to  that  system? Maybe  I  transfer  heat  in  heat  out, work  in  and  work  out. That  transfer  process is  not  a  property,  right? We  did  that  integration of  the  PV  curve  there. I  showed  you  that  it  was  a  path. That's  a  process,  not  a  property. It  doesn't  just  depend  on  the  state of  the  system,  right? And  for  a  closed  system  like  this  where we  don't  transfer  mass  in  and  out, the  only  mechanisms  by which  we  can  transfer  energy  are through  work  or  through  heat. Right?  This  is  the  famous  work. How  many  of  you  know  what  a  jewel  is? How  may  even  know  who  Jewel  was?  Couple. How  many  of  you  know  what his  famous  experiment  was? One.  So  what  was  this  experiment? This  thing,  right?  Yeah,  this  thing, propeller,  a  propeller,  right? So  it's  the  mechanical equivalent  of  heat,  right? So  basically  the  conservation  of  energy, right? The  first  law  there. Okay,  so  again,  so  to  give  it,  like, a  mathematical  definition, so  this  heat  and  work, these  are  boundary  phenomena, and  they  are  path  functions. Again,  what  I  drew  for  you last  week  between  the  points, we  drew  a  curve. These  are  path  functions. We'll  get  into  a  bit  of  what  that  means. Again,  some  more  math  to  take  care  of  this. So  these  path  functions,  you  know, when  we're  dealing  with  integrals and  I'll  do  it  in  an  example here  in  a  second,  you  know, when  we  write  a  differential of  a  path  function, we  do  not  write  DW  at  first. What  you  write  is  Delta,  right? Little  Delta  W  is  then  how  we express  the  differential  of  a  path  function. It's  an  inexact  one.  Why  is  it  in  exact? Because  we  don't  necessarily  know complete  information  about  the  process. Once  you  know  complete  information, you  know,  you  get your  little  D  back  there,  right? And  that's  the  same  then  for also  he  transfer. So  we  don't  write  you  know, Little  D  Q  at  first. We  write  Delta  Q  until  we  have the  full  information  about  the  process. Okay?  Good.  Some  housekeeping. Give  you  an  example  of  what  I mean  by  this  process. So  here,  this  is  a  video showing  one  of  our  favorite  pistons  again. So  here  you  have  a  volume  at a  pressure  of  1  megapascal  in  both  cases. And  here  you  have  an  external  pressure  that's initially  larger  with  some  weights on  top  and  we'll  remove  those  weights. And  then  here  you  have a  situation  where  there's just  low  pressure  and  then no  weights  with  it. The  term  I'm  going  to  use  for  this, you  can  see  written  is  called  reversible. I  haven't  defined  that  for  you  yet, but  just  mean  that  it's  like a  perfect  process  with, let's  say  no  friction. And  then  here  we  have  irreversible. Maybe  there's  some  friction,  the fluids  moving  as  we  expanded. And  what  I  want  you  to focus  on  is  the  outcome. The  fact  that  we  started, with  a  case  where,  you  know,  initially, everything  was  sort  of  compressed  the  same, and  then  at  the  end  of  it,  the  final  outcome is  that  they  look  different,  okay? So  there's  not  one  path. You  didn't  all  follow  one  path to  this  room,  okay? So  you're  a  little  bit  of  an  inexact, you  know, maybe  differential  there  to  start  with. And  it's  the  same  for  here. You  know,  you  can  follow  different  paths  and then  have  different  outcomes  with  it,  okay? Hopefully,  that's  convincing,  if  not, you  can  go  in, you  know,  as  an  experiment  you  could probably  run  pretty  easy. Does  that  look  like  then  on  a  curve? So  again,  our  favorite  PV  PV  diagram  here. I'm  showing  you  a  plot  then  with two  systems  that  are initially  at  the  same  state, same  pressure,  same  volume, but  they  follow  different  processes  and then  the  same  final  state  in  state  two  here, but  they  follow different  processes  to  get  there. As  we  noted  before,  you  know, the  work  transfer  then in  such  a  process  is  then, if  you  have  a  complete  continuous  curve, is  the  area  below  that  curve. So  clearly,  you  can  see  in  the  two  cases  that the  work  transferred  between process  A  and  process  B  is  different, and  you  can  see  that  with  the  numbers that  I've  written,  okay? You're  with  me?  Not  asleep.  Alright. The  properties,  though,  that's  the  path. The  properties  like  pressure  and  volume. These  are  not  path  functions. These  are  point  functions,  right? You  can  show  on  that  diagram. I  can  say  I'm  at  this  state, and  at  this  state,  I  have  this  pressure. I  have  this  volume, this  temperature.  Yes,  please? Yeah,  so  we're  gonna  explore  that. That's  a  great  question. I'm  going  to  give an  example  in  about  two  slides  here. I'm  going  to  work  out  the  board, how  we  handle  that.  Okay? Other  questions?  Okay,  thank  you  for  that. Exactly. And  these  only  depend. These  don't  have  a  history  to  them. You  know,  the  pressure  in  this  room doesn't  care  how  it  got  to  this  pressure. It  is  this  pressure.  It  is  this  temperature. There  is  no  history  to  that. It  doesn't  matter. And  then  these  are  going to  have  exact  differentials. So  maybe  alluding  and  answering a  bit  of  the  question  that  we  had  there. You  know,  in  the  case  of  volume, it's  going  to  be  little  D  V for  a  small  change  with  that. All  right.  The  final  math  part  here  then is  when  we  do  integrate  these  things. So  when  you  integrate,  you  know, from  state  one  to  state  two  of  a  process, let's  say  the  expansion as  we  showed  it  before, right,  there's  going  to  be  a V  two  that's  final. There's  going  to  be  a  V  initial, and  you  can  represent  that  as  a  Delta V.  When  you  do  that  for  work,  right? So  when  I  integrate  now  the  curve  under that  curve  that  I  showed  you  before. So  we  have  the  inexact  differential, but  now  I  know  the  entire path  of  what's  gone. So  I  have  complete  information. Now  I  can  integrate  that, and  I  will  write  w12. I  will  not  write  Delta  W. Okay?  I  like  Greek  as  much  as the  next  person.  Fantastic  Islands. Great  language,  but  you're  not  going  to  use the  Capital  Delta  next  to  a  W  like  that. All  right?  Not  in  this  class. Earlier.  When  you  know, when  it's  determined,  right? When  you  know  the  path  there, then  you  can  integrate,  right? And  until  that  moment,  you  don't,  right? And  there  will  be  some  scenarios  we'll  go through  some  standard  cases  where, you  know,  you'll  automatically know  what  to  substitute  into  it. So  we'll  talk  about  some  expansion and  some  compression  processes, and  you'll  have  some  relations between  P  and  V  that you  just  know  a  priori and  then  could  substitute. But  this  is  a  good  question. Okay.  So  some  examples  of  mechanical  works, so  coming  back  to  our  jewel  experiments. So  before  he  got  started  in  what  he  did, there  was  a  lot  of  work  into cannon  boring,  right? So  people  who  were  making these  things  were  like  boring out  the  center  of  these  tubes. And  what  they  would  find  is  that  actually, no  matter  how  much  they  you  know  spun  that, they  could  always  make  some amante  heat  with  it,  right? We  know  that  now  is  friction,  right? Friction  is  this,  so  you  could  push  this, and  that  could  generate  and  become heat  through  that  process, So  that's  kind  of  like  a  displacement. The  other  one  that's  very  important, especially  for  mechanical  engineers is  what  we  call  a  shaft  work,  right? So  you  have  electricity  in  this  room,  and, you  know,  most  of  the  world because  you  have  a  turbine. This  spins  a  shaft. That  shaft  is  connected  to  a generated  and  voila, right,  electricity  there. So  this  process  then  of the  work  transfer  to  and  from  shafts, we  call  a  shaft  work,  right? And  I'd  like  to  now  go  through  the  example here  on  the  board  with  the  spring. Right. So  here,  what  we  have  is  we  have  a  spring, you  know,  initially  at  a  rest position  here,  hanging,  right? So  this  is  at  equilibrium. So,  you  know,  sum  of forces  is  essentially  zero. I'm  defining  the  direction downwards  as  a  positive  x. And  in  this  case, here  in  the  case  of  the  right, I've  now  applied  a  force. Maybe  I've  added  a  mass to  the  end  of  the  spring, and  then  I've  let  it  come  down to  settle  at  some  distance where  the  spring  is extended  some  amount  further  than  that. The  work,  the  differential  of  work. So  Little  Delta  W, in  this  case,  is  by  definition, equal  to  the  force times  the  displacement,  right? The  little  differential  with  it. Can  recall  you  know, Physics  one  or  high  school or  whatever,  Hook's  law,  right? So  force  is  equal  to the  spring  constant  K  times  x. This  is  Hook.  All  right?  We  can  integrate. So  we  can  substitute  this into  here  and  we  can  integrate. So  if  we  integrate  from  state one  to  state  two  of Delta  W  being  equal  to  zero  to  x  of  k, X  of  the  Tilde,  this  is  a  variable of  integration  because  I  have  an  x  up  there, Delta  X  X  here, right  at  this  point,  I  have complete  information  about  what's  happening, here,  so  this  is  no  longer,  right? You  know,  we  can  assume that  let  me  say  it  another  way. So  at  this  stage  now, if  we  want  to  convert  this now  into  being  Little  Ds, what  we  can  write  is  we  can  say assuming  that  this  is  a  reversible  process. So  meaning  that  we  basically  very gently  pull  this  down  bit  by  bit, almost  analogous  to  the  case where  I  let  that  piston  rise, very  slowly  removing  weight  by  weight. Meaning  I  don't  have  any  friction  with  it. These  little  deltas  here  then become  exact  differentials,  right? And  so  if  you  integrate  that, then  what  we  can  write  is  that  w12  is then  equal  to  one  half,  k  x  squared. Right  as  we  know  it,  right? And  I  understand  that  that's pretty  straightforward,  but,  yeah, hopefully  illuminating  that  into the  steps  that  go  into  that. Alright?  So  that's  a  spring. Staying  with  our  kind  of elementary  school  examples  here. So  in  this  case,  what  I'm showing  you  in  the  video  is something  that  resembles  a  spring. This  is  a  soap  film. And  what  they're  doing in  this  case  is  they  have  a  film suspended  between  this  frame and  a  string  that  they  can  pull  on  it. And  right  as  they  pull  on  it, right,  they  apply  the  force. They're  doing  work. They're  transferring  work  to the  soap  film,  and  then  they  let  it  go. And  it  returns  back  to the  original  state  there. So  this  seemingly  looks  like  a  spring,  right? They  spring  like  behavior. Cool.  So  here's  what  I'd  like  to  do  now. So  I  want  you  to,  again, break  into  the  groups  a  bit. The  prompt  is  this. You're  given  that  you're  stretching a  thin  soap  film  who has  a  surface  tension  sigma. Assume  that  this  is a  reversible  process,  you  know, as  you  know,  kind  of  intuitively, and  as  I've  described  there. These  are  the  dimensions  of  it. So  you  have  this  frame. This  is  the  film,  and  has  a  width  of B.  Alright. So  it  has  a  width  of  B  there? This  is  the  x  direction. You  apply  a  force  here, you  displace  it  at  Delta  x. The  film  has  two  sides  to  it,  right? So  the  surface  tension  here  is  pulling  on this  side  and  also  on  this  side  of  the  wire. And  I  want  you  to  answer  these  two  questions. The  first  is, what's  the  formula  for  the  force? Alright?  If  you  don't  have  a  Greek  keyboard, you  can  write  S  for  Sigma. And  then  what  is  the  formula  for the  work  done  by  stretching  the  film, a  distance  Delta  x. Are  there  any  questions  about  this activity  before  we  get  started? It's  all  clear. Okay,  so  take  10  minutes  in  groups. I'm  going  to  circulate  and  answer questions  as  we  go,  okay? So  nominate  a  recorder, enter  your  group's  first  names, and  then  answer  the  two  questions. Electrical  work.  So,  when  the  heat  transfer, this  involve  temperature  difference,  right? So  if  you  have  energy  transfer  to  the  system, when  When  there's  differences  in  temperature, that's  going  to  be  heat  transfer. If  you  have  energy  transfer, when  everything  is,  you  know, isothermal  there  like  this, it's  going  to  be  a  work. So  you  can  do  electrical,  you  can imagine  a  control  volume  like  this. You  have  a  wire  that  you  run  through  that. You  apply  a  potential an  electrical  potential  across  the  wire. The  wire  has  an  intrinsic  resistance. That  potential  with  that  resistance is  going  to  lead  to  a  current. And  then  these  would  be like  the  formulas  then  for the  the  work  transfer rates  into  the  system,  right? So  voltage  current,  current  squared  resistor, voltage  squared  divided  by  resistance,  right? Good. How  we  come  to  our  first  law,  right? So  the  first  law  essentially  is what  we  call  the conservation  of  energy,  right? This  is  something  that  had  gone on  for  quite  some  time, the  person  who's  credited with  sort  of  writing  it  in the  most  coherent  way first  was  Hulus  Robert  Van  Meyer. He  was  a  German  physician in  the  19th  century. And  that's kind  of  maybe  an  interesting  thing. He  wasn't  an  engineer,  wasn't  a  physicist. He  was  a  physician,  a  doctor, and  had  an  interesting  story  and  how  he  came to  to  discover  that  there. But  again,  in  the  context  of  what  we've looked  at,  you  know,  before,  right? I  I  put  you  know, work,  you  know,  onto a  system,  that  can  become  heat. I  could  take  that  heat  and maybe  use  that  to  expand  it, but  it's  all  transformations. You're  not  creating  energy. You're  not  destroying  it. It's  only  transforming  there. How  do  we  write  that  in  accounting? Speak?  So  the  first  law  is generally  written  like  this. You  have  the  change  in  the  internal  energy  of your  control  volume  is  equal  to the  heat  transferred  to it  minus  the  work  transferred. Excuse  me,  out  of  it,  right? This  is  the  one  convention  that  we  have  for the  control  volumes  there. You  can  generalize  this. You  can  say,  Okay,  this  is the  total  change  in the  energy  of  my  control  volume, and  that's  going  to  be  equal  to the  energy  coming  in  minus the  energy  coming  out,  right? So  that's  your  bank  account. That's  your  job,  your  salary. You  know,  that's  the  expenses  at, you  know,  Safeway  or  whatever,  right? So,  which  is  so  expensive. All  right.  So  this  is  what  it  is,  right? For  the  closed  systems,  as  I mentioned,  when  it's  a  closed  system, you  can  only  transfer  energy  into  it  through heat  transfer  or  through  work  transfer. But  there  are  plenty  of  engineering  systems out  there  that  are  also  open,  right? Mass  can  flow  in  or  out. Think  like  a  water  heater,  even  this  room. You  can  draw  this  as  a  control  volume. You  can  have,  you  know, air  that's  moving  in  and  out. And  those  streams, right  of  mass  that's  flowing, right  can  carry  energy with  them,  it  can  be  kinetic  energy. There's  you  know,  maybe  a  potential energy  difference  across  it. It  could  be  hot,  right? It  could  be,  carrying  internal  energy. There  How  do  we  write  that? So  the  way  that  one  writes  that not  for  the  closed  control  volume, but  now  the  open  one, the  way  that  we  write  that  is  that  we say  that  the  energy, going  in  minus  the  energy  going  out, is  then  the  net  change in  the  energy  of  the  system. So  that,  as  I  said,  could  be internal  energy,  kinetic  potential. And  this  term  then  should  be  equal to  the  heat  in  minus  the  heat  out, the  work  in  minus  the  workout, the  energy  of  the  mass  stream  flowing  in, minus  the  amount  coming  out,  right? And,  of  course,  just  to  be  like, very  confusing,  and  this  is  not  my  fault. This  is  I  want  to  blame  a  book. The  book  does  it  is  that  in  these  cases, when  you  write  with  this  notation  of in  and  out  on  the  right  hand  side  here, these  are  positive  quantities,  right? You've  already  done  the  negatives. You're  taking  care  of the  science  already,  right? In  physics,  like,  you  know, we  had  this  discussion  here, you  draw  the  orientation of  the  forces  already  there, you're  only  dealing  then  with  the  magnitudes. It's  the  same  in  this  case. So  I  mentioned  on  Wednesday,  you  know, a  lot  of  times  we're  dealing  with  cycles. So  if  you  have  a  closed  system,  you  know, they're  undergoing  a  cyclic  transformation, right? The  net  change  and  the  energy of  the  system  is  going  to  be  zero, because  you're  basically  returning  to exactly  where  you  started,  right? There's  no  difference  that we  have  there,  right? So  the  energy  coming  in minus  the  energy  coming out,  it's  actually  zero. Consequence  of  this  is  that the  net  he  transferred  into the  system  is  going  to  be  equal to  the  net  work  transfer  out  of  it,  right? That's  a  statement  of  the  first  law,  right? You're  keeping  track  of  all  of  it. It  may  not  hit  you  now,  but  this  is,  like, actually  kind  of  you  know, a  little  profound  when  you  when  you think  about  it  enough. And  as  we  said  before,  right, the  work  then  is  nothing but  as  we  did  in  the  example  before, it's  going  to  be  basically the  area  within  the within  the  enclosed  circle  on  a  plot on  a  PV  diagram  like  that. Alright,  so  that's  the  consequence. What  I'd  like  to  do  now  with the  remaining  7  minutes, though  is  to  go  through  a  simple  problem then  with  the  First  law  there. So  I'm  drawing  for  you  this  diagram  here. You  have  your  this  box. This  is  a  little  bit like  the  jewel  experiment. You  have  a  paddle,  right? That's  spinning  on  the  insides. You  have  some  work  trans  shaft  work  that's transferring  right  energy  into  the  system. You  have  some  heat  losses  out  of  it. You  have  some  initial  internal  energy of  within  your  control  volume, and  the  question  is  then, what's  the  final  one  there,  right? Where's  my  marker?  Alright.  Okay.  So  What isn't  written  here  is  about  the  Q  in,  right? So  we  have  the  Q  in. Maybe  I'll  move  this side  Well,  yeah,  it's  fine. So  our  Q  in  is  equal  to  zero,  right? We're  not  given  the  information  about  that. Our  Q  out.  Right? We're  told  is  this  500  kilos. The  shaft  work  in, W  shaft  in  is equal  to  100  Kilo  joules. What  I  want  to  note  is  that the  Delta  E  of  the  system is  it's  equal  to  changes in  the  internal  energy. It  could  also  be  things  like  kinetic  energy. It  could  be  potential  energy. But  for  a  system  like  this, we  don't  have  any  changes. This  box  is  not  like  moving. You  know,  the  thing  is  not  basically changing  heights  so  the  change  in the  energy  of the  system  is  then  going  to  be  a  U two  minus  a  U  one. Right.  This  is  all,  by  definition,  right, equal  to  the  energy  coming  in, minus  the  energy  coming  out. Can  expand  this.  So  like the  formula  that  I  showed  you  before,  right? This  would  be  Q,  n  minus  Q. This  is  plus  W  N minus  W.  And  then  this  would  be plus  E  of  the  mass coming  in  minus  E  of  the  mass. Coming  out.  Apologies  to  the  recording. It's  cut  off  on  the  side  there. This  is  going  to  be  simplified,  right, so  our  QN  is  zero. So  that's  gone  Sac. We  don't  have  any  work  transfer  out. That's  gone,  and  we  don't  have any  mass  flowing  in  or  out. So  those  two  terms  are  cut  off. We  already  preemptively  cut  it  off  for the  for  the  video. So  what  this  then  looks  like  in  the  end  is  W n  minus  Q  Q. We  can  substitute  the  values,  right? So  we  have  100  kilo  joules  of the  shaft  work  being  transferred in,  we  have  100  KG. We  have  the  heat  transfer  out, which  I  didn't  write  on  here  is 500  Kilojoules,  so  -500  kilojoules. And  so  in  the  end, that  net  change  is  -400  kilojoules. We  can  recall,  right? We  we  wrote  up  here  before, if  we  wanted  to  determine  the  U  two. So  from  those  formulas  there, what  u  What  we  can  say  is  that  u two  is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  u one  plus  this  difference  here, which  is  then  the  -400  Calvin. Then  u  two  is  equal  to  u  one, which  is  800  kilojoules, 800  kilojoules, and  then  minus  the  400  kilojules. So  in  the  end,  then  you  have  a  400  kilojules as  your  answer  for  u  two. Okay.  Yes,  please. So  I'm  rearranging,  right? So  here  I  can  take  u two  is  equal  to  then,  with  rearranging, this  is  one  plus  e  n  minus  E  out. One  is  what?  1  second.  M?  No,  one. Sorry,  one  is  800.  That's  not  negative. This  is  800  Kilojoules. On  tech,  everyone,  please. Plus,  what  you've  calculated  here, which  is  the  negative  400. 800  -400  is  400. Okay.  Other  questions.  Yes,  please. So  here's  what  I  want  to  say. So  you  have  a  pre  existing. You  all  have  biases,  right? You  have  memories  of  what  you  had,  okay? Before.  What  I'm  telling  you  right  now, just  like  what  you  learned  before, when  you  draw  orientations  and  forces,  right? They  have  effects  then on  the  signs  that  you  work  with. What  I'm  telling  you  right  now  is when  I  write  in  this  notation, what  I'm  talking  about  differences in  the  system  is in  you  know,  minus  out  there. I've  already  predefined  this. So  then  I'm  writing  ins. I'm  writing  outs.  These  are  then you're  dealing  in  magnitudes,  right? This  is  accounting,  right? This  is  money  into  the  bank. This  is  money  out  of  the  bank,  right? It's  And  then  this  is  what the  overall  change  in  the  account that  you  have  there,  right? It  will  become  clear  with  time,  but it's  very  powerful  stuff. Bit  by  bit,  we'll  go  into  this, and  you'll  be  able  to  analyze some  pretty  good  stuff. With  this,  I'm  going  to  finish  for  it today.  We'll  do  on  this  example. We'll  start  with  this  example. The  final  thing I  want  to  say  before  we  go And  Rod  on  the  Golden  Bears  this  weekend  is that  this  control  volume, right,  all  of  this  so  far. I've  talked  about  kind  of a  steady  state  problem.  All  right. But  looking  at  unsteady  problems, looking  at  control  volumes,  right? This  problem  on  global  warming is  nothing  but  that,  right? You  have  too  much,  right, that's  coming  in, not  enough  that's  going  out. And  the  consequence  is we  have  more  energy  here,  right, which  we  experience  as a  warming  part  of  it,  okay? So  with  that,  I'm  gonna  leave  you  on  it. I  believe  I've  crossed  off on  this,  and  I  can  check  it. By  the  end  of  Monday, the  next  week,  we'll be  able  to  do  the  last  one. Okay.  Thank  you  very  much. Everyone,  have  a  great  weekend  and I'm  up  here  if  you  have  questions.
