Yes. Cool.  Thank  you  very  much. All  right.  Okay.  Yeah,  so this  is  how  we  were  doing  properties. This  feels  loud  now. That's  better,  I  think.  Um  All  right. Yeah,  so  we  can  choose  to PiCor  to  get  to the  states  and  these  properties, or  again,  we  can  navigate using  the  isentropic  relations. These  are  steady  flow  processes,  right? So  the  change,  right,  if  I  draw control  volume  on  each  of  these  devices, there's  going  to  be  no  change  in  energy  or mass  inside  of  each  of  those  devices,  right? And  if  I  draw  control  volume around  the  entire  thing,  it's  the  same,  okay? The  energy  that  I  put  in  is  equal  to the  energy  that  I'm  taking  out. All  right.  T  doom. Yeah,  and  the  heat  exchangers  are treated  isoberically. So  let's  start  with,  again, the  steady  flow  analysis of  each  of  these  devices, develop  our  relations  for  heat  and  work, define  efficiency, and  then  let's  get  into  how  we're going  to  use the  isotropic  relations  to  get  to the  actual  enthalpies  there,  right? So  again,  maybe  I'll  draw  the  first  one, and  then  Yeah. Okay.  All  right. So  for  our  compressor, right,  our  compressor  here  is  our  inlet. This  is  our  outlet,  our  state one  to  state  two. My  control  volume  here  looks  like  this, do,  do,  do,  do.  There,  right? Right?  The  change  in  energy  of  the  CV, the  change  in  the  mass  in this  CV  are  both  equal  to  zero,  right? So  the  DE  CV  dt  is  equal  to  e.in, minus  E  dot  out, and  dm  CV  dt is  equal  to  m.in  minus  M  dot  out. Steady,  steady,  gone,  right? So  our  e.in  is  equal  to  our  E  dot  out. And  our.in  is  equal  to  M  dot  out, which  is  equal  to  M  dot. All  right.  Was  that  we  can  bring energy  in,  work,  heat, and  then  dot  enthalpy will  neglect  kinetic  and  we'll  say Delta  E  and  Delta  changes in  potential  energy  are both  essentially  zero  here. So  we'll  have  is  aw.in. We  will  not  have  aq.in because  it's  adiabatic. We'll  have  our.in,  which  is  just  dot, and  then  that'll  be  times  H  one. We  could  have  heat  transferred  out, but  it's  adiabatic,  no. We  don't  have  work  transferred  out. It's  a  compressor. And  so  that's  just  going  to  be the  enthal  PH  two,  okay? And  so  our  w.in  is  just  going  to  be  our m.h2  minus  H  one,  right? We  can  do  the  same  thing  now for  our  heat  exchanger,  right? So  our  heat  exchanger  like  this, again,  our  control  volume. I  guess  I  should  have  indicated, I  didn't  indicate  here,  but  hold  on. I  have  a  W  dot  a  dot  like  that. Our  heat  exchanger  is  state two  to  state  three. We  have  aq.in,  which  is  here. Again,  it's  the  same  thing. We  don't  have  changes in  energy  or  mass  of  the  control  volume, neglect  changes  in  kinetic and  potential  energy. There  is  no  work  transfer associated  with  this  device. So  if  we  write  our  e.in  and  our  e  dot  out, r.in,  we're  going  to  have  aq.in  plus  an.h2. Is  then  equal  to. There's  no  workout,  there's  no  heat  out. So  that's  just  going  to  be  dot  times  H  three. So  then  q.in,  is  equal  to  m.h3  minus  H  two. We  do  a  sanity  check. I'm  putting  heat  in. This  should  be  getting  hotter. I'd  expect  then  that  my  enthalpy  exiting the  heat  exchanger  is  greater than  entering,  right?  That  makes  sense. All  right. Onto  our  turbine. So  our  turbine  here. Okay,  here's  our  turbine. Okay.  Here. All  right.  I've  got,  like, you  know,  work  going  in  two  directions. I'll  just  call  this  in  general, then  as  a  W  dot  out. There's  a  portion  of  the  W  dot out  that  goes  to  the  compressor, and  then  the  portion  that  is transferred  out  and  is  used. We'll  call  that  all  as  dot  W  dot  out. What's  entering  here  and exiting  here  is  then  it's  state  three. In  state  four.  Again,  steady  flow  device. We  don't  have  heat  in  or  it's  adiabatic. We  don't  have  work  in, but  we  do  have  an  m.h3, neglecting  kinetic  and potential  energy  changes. And  that's  going  to  be  equal to  the  shaft  work  out, W  dot  out,  no  heat  out, and  that's  M  dot  times  H  four. So  W  dot  out  is  equal  to  m.h3  minus  H  four. And  again,  that  makes  sense because  I'd  expect  the  enthalpy at  state  30  to  be  higher  than four,  so  that's  good. Okay.  And  then  our  final  one is  another  heat  exchanger. So  here's  our  last  heat  exchanger. Okay.  So  to  control  volume, do  do  do,  do,  do, do  do,  do,  do  do. All  right.  Let's  cue  that  out. State  four  to  state  one. All  right?  Again,  steady  flow  device. No  neglect  changes in  kinetic  potential  energy. I  don't  have  heat  in and  I  don't  have  work  in, but  I  do  have  a  fluid  entering,  right? I  have  an  M  dot  times  H  four, and  that's  equal  to  my  heat  out. I  don't  have  workout. I  do  have  mass  out,  and  then  that's leaving  with  an  enthalpy  of  one,  right? So  Q  dot  out  is  equal  to  m.h4  minus  H  one. And  that  makes  sense,  right,  because  I'd expect  the  gas  here  to  be  colder  and the  enthalpy  specific  enthalp  would be  less  at  state  one,  all  right? That  is  pretty  good. Let's  define  now  our  backward  ratio. So  our  backward  ratio  was  equal  to  the w.in  divided  by  the  W  dot  out. So  the  W  dot  out  was dot  times  H  three  minus  H  four, and  the  W  dot  I  was  then.h2  minus  H  one, the  dots  cancel,  so  you  just  have  H  two  minus H  one  divided  by  H three  minus  H  four.  All  right. Then  the  last  thing  that  we  need  to define  is  the  thermal  efficiency. This  is,  you  know  what  I  already  wrote before.  There  it  is. The  thermal  efficiency  is the  w  dot  out  minus  w.in  divided  by  q.in. The  W  dot  out  again  was  dot  three minus  four  minus  m dot  times  H  two  minus  H  one,  that's  network. Then  this  is  dot  times  H  three  minus  H  two. M  dots  would  cancel. Your  dots  would  cancel  and  you'd  end  up with,  uh,  Let's  see. Three  to  four,  two  to  one,  three  to  two. Yeah,  that's  right.  Okay.  The  two. We  could  also  write  this  as  the  net, the  net  heat  in  34. Let  me  think  for  a  second.  So  that's  32. I  wrote  something  wrong  in  my  notes, but  this  is  right  because  this  is  basically network  out  minus  network in  divided  by  heat  in. You  could  also  write  this  as net  heat  in,  right, which  would  be  MDOT  times  H,  right? Our  heat  is  coming  in  at  H  three  minus  H  two. Minus  the  heat  out, which  is  then  H  four  minus  H  one, and  then  this  is  divided  by  m  dot times  H  three  minus  H  two. We  can  rearrange  this, and  then  this  would  essentially  be one  minus  H  four  minus  H one  divided  by  H  three  minus  H  two,  okay? And  this  is  possible because  it's  a  cycle,  right? All  right.  There's  our  formulas. So  now  what  we  need  to  do  is we  need  to  figure  out  our  states. So  we  need  to  figure  out  of all  of  these  states.  All  right. All  right,  do,  do, do.  Okay. All  right.  State  one,  we're  good. State  one  is  like  this. State  one,  we  have  100  and  P  one  is 140  PA  and  T one  is  equal  to  40  degrees  C,  right? From  this,  I  know  H one  and  I  know  this  one.  Is  there  a  question? Yes,  please. So  this  has  to  do  with the  fact  that  this  is  a  cycle,  okay? It  means  that  I  return  to  where  I  start. If  that's  a  cycle  and I  return  to  where  I  start, the  net  energy  that  I  put  in  must equal  to  the  net  energy  I  take  out,  right? So  in  this  case,  right? The  net  work  that I  take  out  is  w  dot  out  minus  w.in,  right? That's  going  to  be  my  net  workout,  okay? My  net  energy  transferred  in is  going  to  be  right  from  my  heat,  right? That's  q.in  minus  q  dot  out,  okay? So  H  three  minus  two  is  my  q.in, or  little  Q  in  here. H  four  minus  one, right,  is  going  to  be  then  my  little  Q  out. I  multiply  that  by  dot. I've  got  q.in  minus  dot  out  divided  by  q.in. So  both  are  valid,  okay? And  just  to  show  you  that  they're the  same  thing,  I  didn't  need  to  do  that. H  three  minus  H  two  is  here,  right? Minus  H  four  plus  H  one  is  here. So  you  could  go  from  here  to  here with  simple  rearranging  to. But  what  I'm  describing is  that  in  the  numerator  here, right,  it's  the  network  out divided  by  the  heat  in. That's  the  definition  of  the  therm efficiency  of  an  engine. The  network  out  is  equal to  my  net  heat  in,  okay? And  what  I've  written  here  in  this  way  is that  w  dot  out  minus w.in  q.in  minus  Q  dot  out, but  they're  the  same  thing  because  it's a  cycle.  Are  the  questions? Okay.  And  since  that  wasn't  on  the  video, yeah,  that's  what  I'm  talking  about. Okay.  The  question  was  about  that. All  right.  So  we're going  to  navigate  states  now. We  got  to  navigate  states. All  right.  So  here  we're  good. We  know  state  one  to  start  with. State  two,  State  Two. We're  going  to  start  first  with dealing  with  state  two, State  two  S.  State  two  S  is  going 1-2  assuming the  compressor  operates  isentropically. I  need  to  do  that  first  before  I  can  then  use my  isotropic  efficiency  of  the  compressor  to determine  my  actual  state. This  is  the  way  you  do  it. You  write  State  two  S,  State  two  S  two, little  S  two  is  equal  to  little  S  one, and  you  know  that  P two  is  equal  to  RP  times  P  one,  right? So  where  RP  was  the  pressure  ratio. And  this  problem,  I'm just  giving  you  pressure  two. So  you  wouldn't  need  to  know  the  RP. You  could  determine  the  pressure  ratio, but  that's  there. So  from  this,  I  now  know  my  h2s. I  put  a  little  S  there  to  denote  that this  enthalpy  is  for  an  isotropic  process. Okay.  All  right. To  get  to  state  two  A, state  To  A,  I need  to  recall  the  definition  of the  isotropic  efficiency  of  the  compressor. Isotropic  efficiency of  the  compressor  is  the  ratio of  the  minimum  work in  divided  by  the  actual  work  in. What  is  the  minimum  work  in? What  is  that  process?  Don't  make me  call  on  Alex,  right? All  right. It  is  isonropic,  right? It  is  the  minimum  organ is  with  the  one  that's  done  reversibly. So  here,  that  would  be  h2s  minus  H  one, neglecting  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy, which  we  do  for  these  devices, divided  by  H  two  A  minus  H  one. If  I  rearrange  then, what  I  could  have  is  what  H  two  A  minus  H  one is  equal  to  H  twos  minus  H one  divided  by the  isotropic  efficiency  of  the  compressor. And  then  this  is  all  plus  H  one. I  know  H  twos.  I  just  determined  it  here. H  one  we  determined  up  here,  H  one, and  E  to  C, the  isotropic  efficiency  of the  compressor  is  given. I  know  H  two  A, P  two  is  still  P  two,  okay? And  so  with  this  information of  H  two  A  and  the  pressure  at  state  two, I  now  know  H  two  actual. I  can  also  then compute  the  actual  temperature, I  use  Picor,  right? I  can  use  this  with  that  notation  and  call the  enthalpy  and  the  temperature because  I  know  the  state,  right? So  that's  how  you  use the  compressor  there.  All  right. State  two  A.  Let's  go  to  state  three. State  Three. Again,  the  heat  exchanger  isoberic. So  what  does  it  mean  you know  about  the  pressure? It's  P  two,  P  three  is  P  two. You  know  that  and  T  three  is  given. T  three  is  a  given. With  this,  you  know,  little  S  three, and  you  know,  and  you  know  H  three. Again,  just  like  we  did  here  with first  determining  the  isentropic state  and  then  the  actual  state, we'll  start  off  with  state  four  S. For  state  four  S,  S four  is  equal  to  S  three,  right? And  again,  there's  another  heat  exchanger, it  means  that  the  pressure  at  state four  is  equal  to  the  pressure  at  state  one. And  from  this,  I  know  now  H  4h4s.  All  right. The  isontropic  efficiency  of  a  turbine  is the  ratio  of  the  actual  workout divided  by  the  maximum  workout. What  is  the  maximum  workout? Isentropic,  okay?  All  right. So  H  three  and  H  three, right?  And  this  is  minus. So  the  maximum  workout would  be  than  if  I  was  at state  four  and  I arrived  there  isentropically, and  the  actual  one  is  H  for  A, where  a  means  actual,  right? So  then  we  can  rearrange. Then  I  have  what  do  I  have? I  have  H  four  negative  H  for  A  plus H  three  is  equal  to  E  to T  H  three  minus  H  four. Um  Okay. If  I  move  that  to  the  other  side, then  I'll  have  minus  H  three, but  there's  a  negative  sign  here, so  then  I  have  to  make  this negative  and  that  positive. So  the  actual  enthalpy  at  state  four is  equal  to  the  enthalpy at  state  three  minus  isotropic  efficiency of  the  turbine  times  H  three  minus  h4s. But  the  point  is  that  I  know  this. Now  I  know  state  for A  because  I  know  H  A  from  this,  right? And  I  know  that  P  four is  equal  to  P  one,  right? Just  as  I  wrote  it  here. And  so  from  this,  I  can  determine T  I  can  basically determine  T  for  actual,  okay? Yeah,  and  then  obviously, since  I  use  it  as  an  input, I  also  know  my  H  for  A,  all  right? Okay.  And  that's  pretty  much  it. So  for  the  case  of  using  Pi  color,  right? So  if  I  come  back  to  my  efficiency, so  I  have  to  modify  this  a  little  bit. So  the  thermal  efficiencies  here, H  three  is  unchanged, but  H  four  is  HA  H  two  A  minus  H  one, H  three  is  unchanged, but  then  I  have  H  H  two  A,  okay? And  each  of  those  right? We  could  determine  by  substituting in  from  here  at  H  two  I  have  here, H  four  A  I  have  here, H  three  I  have  here, and  H  one  I  have  here. What's  the  one  thing that  I  don't  know,  though? I  guess  I  don't  need  it  to  determine  that, but  the  one  thing  that  we  didn't determine  yet  was  the  mass  flow  rate. If  you  want  to  do  that,  you  need  to  know  also the  specific  volume  or at  the  entrance  at  state  one. The  specific  volume  at state  one  you  could  call  here, and  then  dot,  say  M  dot. Is  then  going  to  be  equal  to  V  dot, the  volumetric  flow  rate  given  above, divided  by  the  specific  volume  at  state  one. Why  at  state  one?  Because  this is  going  to  typically  be, right,  the  volumetric  flow rate  of  air  that  comes  in. If  air  is  coming  into  this  device, it's  entering  from  the  outside. It  means  it's  entering  from  state  one,  okay? Um,  Yeah, it  does  matter  where  you  take  that  up, but  you  would  call  it,  in  this  case, a  state  one  because that's  where  it's  entering. The  backward  ratio, again,  we  can  modify  that. That'll  be  H  two  A  minus  H  one, and  then  H  three  minus  H  for  A. In  terms  of  the  temperatures  at  the  exits, again,  you  can  call  that  one pi  killer  like  that, and  where's  my  state  two, you  can  call  the  other  one  like that.  To  do  do. All  right.  Are  there  questions about  this  before  I  show  you  ideal  gas? So,  for  me,  I  personally find  this  a  rather  intuitive  way  of, you  know,  going  through. So  even  if  I  could  choose to  do  ideal  gas  here, my  personal  preference  is  to write  down  my  formulas  and  then,  you  know, work  through  my  states in  this  manner,  all  right? Yes,  please. So  that's  in this  efficiency  that's  given,  right? So  before  we  had  talked  about the  isotropic  efficiencies  of compressor  to  turbine  essentially, devices  that  can  compress or  transfer  workout, and  they  are  by  definition, if  you  neglect  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. This  for  the  turbine,  the  ratio of  the  actual  workout  of that  device  divided  by the  maximum  possible,  right? What  is  the  meaning  of  this? The  meaning  of  this  is  that you  recognize  that  in  the  real  world, things  don't  operate  with  a 100%  of  their  capacity. It's  Friday  afternoon.  I'm  up  here. I  don't  know  what  my  ETA  is, but  I  don't  feel,  you  know,  it's not  100,  all  right? That's  the  meaning  of  this,  right? So  it  tells  you  that  you  know, in  a  convenient  way, how  to  determine  the  state at  the  exit  of  these  devices  while giving  you  something  that's kind  of  real,  right? But  that's  where  it  comes through  is  with  this. And  you  would  be given  this  piece  of  information. The  upstream  condition  is  always  known. So  the  inlets  are  going  to be  given,  okay,  for  both  of  them. You  determine  the  isentropic  property, via  the  way  that  I  did  right via  the  way  that  I  did  here, where  the  entrance  entropy is  equal  to  the  exit, and  by  knowing  another  property, then  you  can  determine the  isotropic  enthropy. And  then  from  that  you  solve for  the  actual  enthropy. Okay.  Other  questions?  Cool. All  right.  We're  going to  stay  with  this  because  why  not? What  should  I  erase? I  feel  like  that  I  want to  keep  and  this  I  want  to  keep. This  I'm  going  to erase  because  we're  going  to  work through  our  properties  now. So  this  right,  I  know  that um  All  right,  whatever. We'll  kill  this  will kill  this.  We'll  kill  this. State  three  will  leave  like  this. State  four  S  we'll  get  rid  of. State  four  A  will  also  get  rid  of. This  will  also  get  rid of,  but  we'll  keep  that. Allright? Okay,  let's  start  with  this,  first  of  all. Changes  in  enthalpy  for an  ideal  gas  can  be  approximated  as  what? Cp  Delta  Ts,  okay? So  Cp  Delta  T  here, Cp  Delta  T  here. This  for  an  ideal  gas  can  be  approximated  as T  three  minus  T  four  A divided  by  T  three  minus  T  four,  okay? The  same  thing  here.  Cp  Delta T.  This  is  then  going  to  be  T two  minus  T  one  divided by  T  two  A  minus  T  one.  All  right? From  the  TDS  relations  that  I  wrote  before, here,  in  this  notation  is  T  two. So  the  isentropic  temperature, the  exit  of  the  compressor is  equal  to  the  entrance one  times  the  ratio  of the  pressures  in  the  antibiotic  index. So  you  know  t2s,  right? So  you  know  t2s, you  know  T  ones,  and  you're  given  this. You  solve  for  T  two  A. That's  it,  okay?  And  vice  versa. You  can  do  the  same  thing  for right  for  the  turbines, T  T  four  is  equal  to  T  three  times P  four  divided  by  P  three  to the  kappa  minus  one  divided  by  Kappa,  okay? Again,  you  know  T  three. You  know  this  pressure  ratio  as  it's  given. You  know  your  Kappa,  so  you  know  T  four. All  right.  And  so,  you  know,  T  three, you  know,  T  three,  you  know, t4s  from  that,  you  know,  E  to  T. And  then  what  you  solve  for is  T  four  A,  okay? Yes,  please. 1.4.  Okay.  Other  questions? You  can  also  figure  it  out  with  PICO,  right? You  can  go  if  you  have  a  state,  right? If  you  have  a  state,  you  can  go,  S, let's  say  one  dot  cpp, and  then  I'll  call  that  or  dot CV  and  then  we'll  call  that. Chandler  told  me  to update  the  documentation,  but, you  know,  like  Mario and  stuff,  there's  cheat  codes. So  say  it  again? Kindly,  he  did.  He  asked  me  kindly. He  did  ask  kindly.  He  did  ask  kindly. Okay. But  that's  how  you  can  call it  and  then  you  take  the  ratio, but  1.4  is  what  it  is  for  air. Okay?  Other  questions? Right.  And  then  when  it  comes  into these  efficiencies, right,  for  the  same  thing. So  if  I  want  to  know the  efficiency  here,  right, this  is  going  to  be  one  minus  T  four  minus T  one  divided  by  T  three  minus  T  two. This  is  going  to  be  H  for  A and  T  for  A  and  T  two  A,  okay? And  again,  we're  allowed to  do  this  for  an  ideal  gas. It's  an  approximation  of  changes  in enthalpy  or  CP  dts,  right? Um  If  you  want  to  do  some  math, like  we  did  for  the  auto  cycle, this  Eta  H  of  a  Brayton  cycle can  be  shown  to  be  equal  to  one minus  one  over  the  RP, that  compression  ratio  to the  kappa  minus  one  divided  by  Kappa. That's  nice.  Again,  with  an  ideal  gas, instead  of  going  through  all  of  that, I  could  break  this  down  into  two  parameters, the  adiabatic  index  of  the  fluid, which  is  an  ideal  gas, and  the  ratio  of  the  pressure  at the  exit  to  the  inlet  of  the  compressor. P  two  divided  by  P  one. With  that,  you  can  get  a  number,  all  right? But  this  number  here  is,  again, would  be  assuming  it  will  be slightly  different  from  what  you'll compute  here  because  in  this  derivation  here, there  is  nothing  about  T  for  actual. What  you  would  have  here  is the  isentropic  temperature  at state  four  and  the  isentropic temperature  at  state  two. So  something  like  this  would  be,  right, an  approximation  there  for an  ideal  cast  for  the  ideal  Brayton  cycle. And  that's  analogous.  Remember  to what  we  did  for  auto,  right? The  auto  cycle  and  the  diesel  cycle, that's  the  one  you  would have  for  Brayton,  okay? And  what  does  it  mean? It  means  that  essentially, if  I  have  a  huge  pressure  ratio, then  I'm  going  to  have  this  approaching  one, and  that  kind  of  makes  sense,  right? If  I  take  something  and  I  compress  it, the  temperature  is  going to  go  up  like  hell,  right? You're  going  to  have  huge temperature  increase  with  that. And  so  intuitively,  that  would make  sense  to  me  that in  increasing  that  value, you'll  get  to  a  higher  efficiency. All  right.  Yeah,  and the  back  work  ratio,  also  the  same  thing. You  know  what  here, but  this  could  also  just  be the  temperature  differences  if you  assume  the  ideal  gas,  right? All  right.  Good. Yeah,  and  if  you  want  to, you  can  click  on  that  and  follow  through. I  will  just  caution you  that  at  least  one  of  the I  think  the  one  efficiency formula  I  looked  at  is  wrong  for  now, but  I'll  update  it probably  the  next  time  I  teach. So  that'll  be  fun  to  see  next  year. All  right,  um,  Okay, so  where  are  we  at  in  terms  of efficiencies  as  a  function of  the  pressure  ratios? Again,  just  like  we  did  for  the  auto and  the  diesel  cycle, these  are  the  typical  values you'll  have  for  pressure  ratios, and  then  these  are  the  efficiencies. So  somewhere  between  0.35  and  0.6, 30%  dash  60%  efficiency, 60%,  if  that  was true,  that's  a  pretty  big  number. Okay.  Thermoric  power  plants  are  somewhere  in the  neighborhood  of  50%,  45,  50%. So  for  the  theoretical  one, that's  a  rather  high, um,  If  you  were  able  to  attain  that, that  would  be  a  rather  high  value. Again,  applications, electric  power  generation, and  then  aircraft  propulsion. All  right,  sadly,  I'm not  going  to  have  time  to do  jet  propulsion  today. It'll  be  Monday,  but  I  want  to  tell you  one  interesting  thing,  all  right, about  the  Brayden  if  you  do  want  to increase  the  efficiency  of  the  cycle,  okay? And  it  is  called  a  regenerator,  right? A  regenerator.  I'm  going  to let  you  look  at  that  while  I  erase. All  right.  All  right. All  right. All  right. All  right.  Before  I get  into  the  details  of  it, I  just  want  to  tell  I  want  to  describe  this, all  right,  then  it  will  make  sense  to  you. So  we  have  this  compressor, which  is  here,  so  something  coming  in. This  leaves  the  compressor. It  goes  through  this  device, which  I'm  calling  a  regenerator. It  goes  from  here  into  a  heat  exchanger, so  a  combustion  chamber. This  then  goes  down  into  right? My  turbine's  connected  via  the  shaft  here. I've  got  some,  you know,  work  transferred  out. I  then  have  this  exit, which  is  then  passing  through, again,  this  regenerator and  it's  leaving,  okay? All  right.  Yes,  please. I  number  things  intelligently,  okay? Let's  leave  it  at  that.  All  right. So  let's  draw  control  volume. Okay?  Well,  let's  say  something  here. So  the  fluid  coming  out  of the  compressor  is  warm,  okay? But  it's  not  as  hot  as  State  three. So  State  three  is  the  hottest, and  state  two  is  lower. Out  of  the  turbine, let's  say  you  have  gases  that  are  hot. If  you  ever  put  your  hand  near  a  muffler, hopefully  not  too  close,  you'll feel  it  can  be  warm,  okay? If  you  ride  a  bike  behind  these,  like,  buses, you  feel  warm  and  you're  also, you  know,  getting  smug  there,  right? So  you  have  this  as  a  higher  temperature, and  this  is  going  out the  atmosphere  at  state  six. So  probably  this  temperature  here  is  higher than  this  one,  okay?  All  right. With  this  device,  you  would  just be  exhausting  this  into  the  environment. This  is  something  really  hot. Okay.  The  idea  here is  maybe  I  could  take  some  of  the, the  heat  out  of  the  exhaust  and  warm up  the  fluid  before it  enters  the  combustion  chamber. Now,  why  is  that  an  interesting  idea? I'll  show  you  now  with  a  drawing. Let's  say  I  draw  my  control  volume around  Um,  let's  see. I  can  draw  it.  Let's  see. I  draw  it  like  this.  Okay? So  I've  drawn  it  around the  compressor,  the  turbine, the  heat  exchanger, basically,  the  compressor, and  the  regenerator, right?  So  what  do  I  have? I  have  a  network  w.net  out, which  is  leaving,  and  I  have  Q  dot, which  is  going  into  the  combustor. 1  second.  Is  energy entering  or  leaving  the  system through  that  regenerator  as  I've  drawn  it? No.  So  it's  like  you're  heating your  fluid  without  putting  any  heat  in. That's  it.  That  is  it. That's  why  you  do  a  regenerator. Okay?  It's  like  for  free,  ar? And  very  rarely  are things  free  in  thermodynamics, but  that's  something  that's  for  free. So  you  can  do  that. And  so  it  means  you  need less  q.in,  all  right? And  if  my  whole  efficiency is  Q  dot  N  is  in  my  denominator, if  I  make  that  smaller, because  I'm  preheating  here, I'm  going  to  automatically  end  up with  a  higher  efficiency,  okay? All  right.  How  does  the  book talk  about  what's the  trick  that  you  need  to  know to  be  able  to  handle  this  device? The  book  will  talk  about regeneration  efficiency,  right? And  again,  I  said  here, this  was  State  two  entering  it. I  have  State  five  here, I  have  State  four,  which  is  here, and  I  have  State  six,  which  is  there. Five,  two,  and  four, right,  which  is  there.  So  I  have  that. So  there's  five, there's  two  and  four  and  two. Okay.  All  right,  so  I  don't  need  state  six. All  right.  Okay,  the efficiency  here  or  the  effectiveness. I'm  sorry,  it's  called  effectiveness. So  the  effectiveness  of this  regenerator  is  the  enthalpy at  state  five  minus the  enthalpy  at  state  two, right,  entering  the  regenerator. H  four  minus  H  two,  okay? So  five  to  two,  that's  kind  of  clear,  right? That  would  essentially  be how  much  heat  is  transferred, right  through  this  process  to  warm  you  up. And  you  want  that  to  be  a  large  number. So  a  more  effective  regenerator  is  increasing the  enthalpy  at  state five  without  heating  from  the  outside,  right? That's  an  effective  regenerator,  right? Um,  On  the  other  side, we  have  H  four,  right, minus  H  two,  right? This  is  essentially  H  four  would  be  like, kind  of  like  the  potential,  right? That's  the  higher  enthalpy  state that's  exiting  the  turbine. Um,  I  don't  you could  say  that  maybe you  want  this  to  be  a  really, really  high  value  because  that will  or  if  you  had  a  really, really  high  value  here,  it  may  not be  as  effective  as  of  a  device. And  because  it's  leaving  a  turbine, it  won't  be  particularly  high,  okay? But  you  have  something  here,  H  four, and  you  want  to  take  enthalpy  out  of that  on  the  way  to  six,  right? So  4-6,  you're  going  to  cool  that  down, and  you're  going  to  transfer  it  in,  right? But  you're  not  going to  be  able  to  transfer  in more  enthalpy  than  what  you started  with,  okay,  right? So  you're  not  going  to  be  able  to  get  more out  of  this  than  H  four  minus  H  two, since  this  is  what  you  start  with. And  this  is  the  effectiveness,  right? Okay,  so  that's  all  you need  to  know  about  Braden,  literally, how  you  solved  it,  and then  this  little  twist  and  any  quiz I'm  going  to  give  you  on  a  gas  power  cycle, you  should  be  good  to  go. There  are  other  things  like reheat  and  other  little  things. We'll  probably  get  into  those  when  we  do vapor  power  cycle.  Heres,  please. So  with  combustion  chambers and  engines,  don't  you  want, like  the  highest  concentration,  like, density  of  that  combusting Carn,  all  I  want  is  it  hot. The  hotter  it  is,  the  better. That's  all  I  care  about  in  Carn. Okay?  Yes.  But  you  could  get hotter  by  having  more  fuel, right,  and  things  like  that. Enthalpies  vapor  enthalpy  of  combustion? Yeah,  you  could  have  that.  Okay.  I'm  going to  close  it  here.  That  was  a  good  question. Go  bears,  Sam
