Yeah. Okay,  I  got  310. So  let's  get  started.  So  today  in  three  B, we're  going  to  cover  property  tables and  ideal  gases. The  first  thing  I  want  to  announce  though, is  that  here,  there's  been a  few  questions  to  me  about  like exam  dates  and  all  this  and  that. Instead  of  me  burying  it like  within  the  first  lecture  slides. I've  made  a  file  here.  I  put it  below  syllabus,  so  you  can  check  that  out. The  final  exam  is  announced, so  it's  currently  Tuesday. Week  of  finals  from  7:00  P.M.  To  10:00 P.M.  That's  terrible  if you  have  children  to  take  care  of. So  I  have  tried  to  appeal this  and  see  what  I  can  do. Has  anyone  here  taken  an  exam here  at  7:00  P.M.  Before? Okay,  so  I  might  be  a  losing  battle, but  I'm  going  to  try,  anyways  with  it. With  the  prairie  test,  we  had 119  reservations, which  I  think  is  acceptable,  right? That's  79%.  So  think  about  that  in  a  grade. With  it.  I  know a  few  of  you  were  able  to  go  through  it and  see  the  environment  more  details  on how  we'll  conduct  it  for mid  term  one  will  come. Anecdotal  feedback,  things  to communicate  with  me  or an  e  mail  are  also  appreciated. Things  that  were  good  could  be  better. And  then  I  can  compile  those  with  it. With  wait  list,  I  anyone here  still  on  the  wait  list  for  this  course? One.  So  it's  going  to  be  cleared. So  we've  increased  it  up  to  160, so  hopefully  not  hopefully  everyone  who  wants to  be  in  here  will  be  able to  be  in  here,  okay? Great.  Group  work.  So  last  week, no,  week.  Last  lecture. We'd  given  this  problem  with  the  TV  diagram, and  we're  discussing  saturated  Sh.  States. Look,  animated.  And  now  I dented  this.  That's  great. Um  Oh,  this  is  less  than  ideal.  Okay. TV  diagram,  you  know,  there, we're  looking  at  a  saturated  liquid  at  T equals  80  degrees  C. We've  picked  on  the  diagram  where  we  were. What  I'd  like  to  do  now  is  to go  back  into  similar  groups. So  groups  of  four  and answer  questions  two,  three,  and  four. Namely,  what's  the  pressure  inside the  container,  the  specific  volume. And  then  given  the  mass  that's  here, what's  the  overall  volume  of  the  container? Okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  this  activity? Alright,  let's  go.  So  5  minutes. This  is  water.  This  is  water. So,  as  soon  as  you  see  water, what  equation  are  we  not  gonna  use? Ideal  gas.  We  are  not  gonna  use  ideal  gas. Great.  5  minutes.  That's  okay. I  told  you  it's  the  most  common  error. It's  like  a  reflex.  So  Alright. Is  it  okay? You  guys  are  able  to  pull  it  up  or  no. All  right.  Se  property  tables. That's  very  nice. Okay.  Is  like  you're  on  track. And  then  you  know which  one  to  pull  up,  right? Yeah. Great. Great.  Able  to  property  tables  from, like,  the  book  or  anything. Okay.  Great.  It's  going to  be  at  the  appendix  A  four. If  you  look  at  appendix, you're  going  to  see  property. Get  in  liquid. And  do  you  guys  have  access  to  the  book or  anything  for  like  property  tables  or  no? I  have  access  to. Okay.  So  pull  that  up  in  Table  A  four. I  think  Table  A  four. Yeah,  Table  A  table  A. And  does  somebody  here  within  like the  book  for  A  with the  property  tables  or  no. So  f.  Textbook  A  four.  Table  A  four. You  can  also  do  it  within  Python  if you're  able  to  write  that. Does  anyone  do  you  have access  to  the  book  or  no? Say  it  again. Physically  Physically  at  home is  a  good  place. Yeah.  Otherwise,  if  you have  the  properties  with that  or  Jupiter  notebook,  the  code  there. Okay. Yes.  Table.  Do  you  guys have  access  to  property  tables  or u  the  Jupiter  thing. You  can  also  try  with  Jupiter  as  well. If  you  know  how  to  Yeah, you  can  also  do  it  with  that  with specification  of  the  temperature, and  then  also  the  quality, the  vapor  quality  term  there. We  had  an  example. Where  would  that  be  in  here? I  don't  I  mean,  I'm  assuming  that  I just  if  you  were  to  go  to  the  second  part, I  believe  in  the  second  part  of the  example,  keeps  scrawling. Keeps  scrawling.  Keeps  crawling. Keep.  So  here  we  talked  about saturated  vapor  with  x  equals  to  one  here. So  this  is  an  example  of  one  way  to  do  it. Another  one  is  to  look  at table  A  four  within  the  book. So  My  man. Okay.  Do  you  all  have access  to  properties  or  an  ability  to tables  in  the  book  or  like the  notebook  or  Say  it  again? So  it's  in  the  appendix.  If  you  have the  book  and  you  go  to  table  A  four, that's  going  to  be the  saturated  properties  for  water. Okay.  Cool.  Otherwise,  the example  we  worked  with  last  week on  the  Jupiter  notebook. The  second  part  of  it  was for  a  saturated  vapor. Here  you're  dealing  with almost  an  identical  case, but  a  saturated  liquid. Okay. Yes.  A  four E.  What's  E. So  this  is  in  Fahrenheit. I  would  look.  So  this  is  the  English  units. You  can  look  at  the  metric  ones  as  well. So  there's  just  an  A  four, which  is  going  to  be  up.  Okay. Yeah.  Fahrenheit  for  me  is. Yeah,  it's  a  bit  more  up. Yeah,  cause  this  is  all  after. So  you  look  this  is  the  English  charts. Above  is  then  the  SI  charts. All  right.  I  got  5  minutes.  So  let's  look. Okay.  I'll  give  it  for  maybe  another  minute. Let's  see  if  we  can  get  this  number  above ten  with  the  value. Did  it  work  okay?  Okay.  All  right. Great.  Thank  you  very  much. Thank  you.  You  were one  of  the  first  too,  right?  Yeah. Alright,  let's  have  a  look  then. Is  there  a  brave  tenth? Is  there  a  brave,  there  we  go.  Very  brave. Alright,  so  pressure  inside  the  container. So  we  see  40  sevens.  This  is  good. I  like  that  also,  right  in  the  KPA  there. Also,  good.  I  see  0.5. I  see  47? KPA.  Again,  a  0.5. I  see  a  50.  57. Okay,  so  I  see  a  majority  at  47. So  I'm  gonna  call  this  as  the  majority. We'll  discuss  that  next. So  for  those  who  found  with  47, is  there  a  group  here who  is  willing  to  share  them their  procedures  for  how  they  determined  47? Please.  You  name? Yes.  80  degrees  Celsius. And  which  table  was  that?  Sorry.  A  four. Okay,  A  four.  I  see. Don't  always  trust  your  professors. They  might  lie  you  there. Is  there  anyone  else who  did  it  a  different  way  instead  a  table A  four  to  this  temperature  and then  the  saturation  pressure? Did  anyone  try  with  the  IAP  w97? Okay.  Oh,  I  see  that. So  what  was  the  number  that  you got  with  your  code,  if  I  may  ask? 0.047.  Which  is  what  in  Killa  Pascals? Yeah.  What's  that  in  Killa  Pascal? 47.  Okay.  Wonderful  with  that. How  about  the  cases  for  the  0.5  case  there? I  can  actually  look  at  my  table.  Zero  point. Is  there  anyone  in the  group  you  don't  have  to, but  if  there  was  one  group  who  had,  like, a  0.5  or  maybe  a  50  or  a  57, if  they  care  to  share  their  procedure for  what  they  did?  Okay. It's  a  very  safe  space. So  Yes,  please. Okay.  Yeah.  So  in the  case,  which  number  was  it? Was  it  a  bigger  number?  It  was  57. Okay,  so  this  is  off  by  Of  by  a  row. That's  okay.  Order  of  magnitude. You're  pretty  okay. And  Engineering,  that's  also  fine. So  Okay. Any  of  the  other  ones  that  doesn't see  the  number  represented  here. Okay.  So  just  to  be  clear, sometimes  I'm  not  when  I  do  the  discussions. So  the  right  way  with  this  was  to do  it.  Your  name? Tier. Yeah.  Yeah.  Oh,  my  God. I  don't  know  if  you  ever watched  parks  and  recreation, but  there's  like  Gary  Girgich, and  he  becomes  Jerry  and  like, overtime  is  a  completely  different  at. Okay,  so  Dat  Deer  said  that,  you  know, you  would  go  to  the  IAP  WS  IAP  WS  command. You're  going  to  specify  the  temperature, right? So  your  temperature  was  80  plus  273.15. And  then  your  quality  was  what? X.  Zero.  So  the  quality has  to  be  zero  for  the  S  it  again. I  mean,  it  can  be  that.  But  to be  correct  for  saturated  liquid, it's  a  zero.  Okay,  cool. So  it's  a  zero  for  the  liquid, but  it  could  be  a  12  because the  temperature  and  the  pressure are  both  within  that. The  other  way  to  do  it,  as  mentioned, was  to  go  to  the  table  A  four. I  won't  always  be  there  in  the  exams to  tell  you  what  table  to  look  at. So,  you  know,  that,  make that  a  little  more  automatic. So  go  to  that,  go  to the  temperature  that  you  had  there, and  then  look  for the  corresponding  pressure  with  it. And  why  do  you  know  to  go  to  this  table, you  know,  this  table because  it  was  said  saturated? So  would  you  look  at  the  appendix, to  see  saturated  water  tables. In  one  column,  it  will  say temperature  and  another  one,  pressure, and  then  there's  a  reversed  one, where  you  have the  saturation  pressure  and the  corresponding  temperature  with  it. Yes,  please. Oh,  I'm  sorry.  No,  no,  that's  my  fault. I  think  maybe  I'm  going  to  switch  over  to iPad  writing  in  the  future  for  this. I'm  I'll  swap  this  over  here. So  if  you  look  at the  Jupiter  notebooks  that  are  there, and  you  can  correct  me  if I'm  wrong  with  the  commands. But  in  short,  you  define  like  a  variable. Let's  call  it  water, right?  We  can  call  it  water. And  then  the  way  that  this  works  after you've  imported  the  IAP  WS  module, I  believe  it's  I  AP  WS is  the  way  that  we  write  it, T,  is  that  right? Almost. Okay.  So  I  almost  have  your  name  right, and  I  almost  have  the  command  rate. So  you  have  with  this  then, you  have  to  declare  your  two  variables, your  two  basically,  you  know, variables,  thermonemic  variables. In  this  case,  you  know,  the  temperature. So  you're  going  define your  temperature  as  the 80  plus  273.15,  right? That's  in  Kelvin.  And  then  the  next  thing you  declare  the  next  variable. In  our  case,  we  know  it's  a  saturated  liquid, so  the  quality  is  equal  to  zero. And  then  to  have  the  pressure out  of  it.  So  this  is  computed. The  way  you'll  get pressure  is  then  you  would  write,  you  know, say  P  is  equal  to  water,  dot, and  I  believe  it's  uppercase  P,  right? That  part's  good.  He's  telling  me  it's  right. So  that's  how  you  would  work  with  the let's  say  electronic  tables  there.  You  know? Have  most  of  you  taken Python  for  the  coating, or  most  of  it  Matlab  in  here? So  Python,  Mat  Lab,  Fortran,  With  that. So  there's  also  another  one  that's  in  Matlab. I  can  share  that  with  you. There's  an  example  that's  on the  B  courses  site there  that  I  can  also  share. It's  called  team,  a  very  similar, very  similar  type  of  approach,  okay? Alright.  So  that's  under  pressure. Let's  go  to  the  next  part.  Alright. Oh,  no,  I  can  go  just  next,  right. So  then  with  the  specific  volume. So  specific  volume  here, I  have  point  a  lot  of  0.00  ones. 0.00  ones.  Okay,  that all  looks  basically  fine.  There. Yeah,  the  answer  that I  have  is  also  the  same. I  don't  see  any  discrepancies  here. So  you  know,  again, it's  the  same  procedure,  right. Once  you're  at  the  table,  and you've  read  now  the  temperature, you  go  one  column  over  or  a  couple  of  Yeah, you  basically  go  one  column over  to  the  next  of  the  pressure, and  you'll  see  the  value. If  you  want  to  do  it  with  this  notation, again,  I  believe  it's  like  this, you  can  write  V  is  then  water  dot  V, and  you  would  then  get  the  V and  the  Python  notation. I  don't  know  if  the  gentleman  who Tire  had  that.  Okay. So,  that's  great.  And  then  in the  final  part  here,  what's  the  volume. So,  in  the  case  of  the  volume  here, I  see  a  lot  of  0.050  0.050  0.005  0.01. Oh,  my  God. I  would  say  0.05  is  in  the  majority  here. If  I  look  at  what  I  have. I  also  have  0.051  with  it. And  just  in  the  interest  of  time, we'll  just  write  it  out,  right.  The  volume. Once  you  have  the  specific  volume, which  is  right  has  units  of meters  cubed  per  kilogram. You  know  what  the  mass  is,  right? So  the  volume  is  equal  to the  mass  times  the  specific  volume  there. All  right?  And  then  just  make  sure you  have  the  SI  units  with  it. Is  that  clear? Thank  you.  Yes.  Question. Yes.  Yes,  yes.  I'm  not gonna  make  your  life  hard with  that.  I'll  give  actually. And  I'm  not  gonna  give  all  the  tables. I'll  basically  give  the  ones  that  are  useful, so  you  don't  want  to  flip  around. Yes,  please. This  Yeah.  Oh,  sorry. M  times  little  V.  So  this  is  big  V  for  me, and  then  this  is  little  V  for  me. Okay.  And  then  this  symbol  here, we  write  this  when  we  want  to  say what  the  dimension  of  a  variable  is. So  when  I  write  this,  so  if  I  write  this, I  write  this  next  after  that, I'm  going  to  give  you  the  dimensions. And  this  dimension  is  cube  per  kilogram. So  what  will  be? Little  V  is  the  specific  volume,  right? So  big  V  has  the  units  of  meters  cubed, and  little  V  is  the  same, but  what  we  call  a  gravimetric basis  on  a  mass  basis,  right? So  this  is  then  meters  cubed  per  kilogram. And  in  thermodynamics,  whenever  we write  these  kinds  of  things  as  in  general, as  little  variables,  it  means like  that  quantity  per  mass,  right? So  internal  energy,  when  we  write it  is  little  U  is going  to  be  usually  like  joules  per  kilogram, when  it's  big  u,  it's  just  jus, and  so  on  and  so  forth.  Other  questions. Wonderful. Okay.  That  was  good.  That  was  good. Then  the  sorry,  Funny.  All  right. Um  All  right.  So  let's. So  today,  we're  going  to  talk  about this  ideal  gas. And  then  we're  going  to  talk  a  bit  about the  ideal  gas  equation of  state,  right? So,  remember,  I  showed  you  this  plot  before this  surface  plot  that Maxwell  had  made,  right? We're  showing  all  the  different  P  V  and  T, and  then  the  different  states, you  know,  with  it. If  you  wanted  to  represent  right, the  properties  you  know,  like,  let's  say, a  holy  grail  of  thermo  would be  have  a  formula  that  would  be able  to  define  all  of  that  and  give  you all  the  properties  at  each  of  those  points. And  that  equation,  we  would  call an  equation  of  state. So  P  V  and  T,  right? You're  familiar  with  the  ideal  gas  equation. Right.  So,  I  mean,  you  have  this  typically introduced  in  chemistry, sometimes  physics  there. You're  not  really  told  y,  right? It's  kind  of  handed  to  you. Historically, it  also  kind  of  developed  that  way. One's  called  Boyle's  law. You  know,  various  laws  that  eventually were  combined  into  one. And  you  can  write  it  as  PV is  equal  to  M  RT,  right? That's  the  chemistry  way.  M  is  molar, and  R  is  the  ideal  gas  constant, right  energy  per  mole  per  Kelvin. You  can  also  write  it  like  the  physicist  way, which  is  then  PV  is  equal  to  n,  KT, where  n  is  the  number  of  molecules  and K  is  Boltzmann  constant, rights  basically  molecules. Per  energy  per  molecule  per  Kelvin  there. And  so  what  this  really  says is  if  I  took  this  ratio  of  PV, N  KT  or  PV  divided  by  MRT, that  should  be  a  constant  value,  right? Because  the  equation  itself. And  so  if  you  go  to  our  simulator, again,  I  don't  know,  maybe  last  year, I  had  a  better  thing, but  you  could  go  into  the  simulator, and  you  could  start  to  vary some  of  these  quantities,  right? You  could  go  in  and  vary, for  example,  you  know, the  number  of  molecules that  are  in  there,  you  could  vary, like  the  temperature  that's  in  there across  started  different. You  vary  the  volume of  what  you're  dealing  with, and,  you  know,  do  that  in  Excel  file. You  don't  have  to  do  yourself. I  did  it  for  you last  year  in  this  poorly  recorded  video. But  the  point  is  that  you  could  then compute  the  ratio  of  those  parameters, the  PV  divided  by  the  NKT. And  what  you  would  see at  the  end  of  it  is  that within  reason  for  this  simulator, Most  of  these  values  would be  approximately  a  constant. And  I'm  asking  you  to  trust me  with  this  because  of the  resolution  limitations  with  it,  right? And  so  again,  where  this  equation  is valid  is  this  kind of  billiard  balls  scenario, where  these  things  don't  stick,  right? Everything  is  just  like  collisions. There's  nothing  sticking  to  each  other, right? So  this  is  something  where there's,  you  know,  physically, we  would  say  no  intermolecular  interactions, right? So  these  things  are  not  going  to bind  or  they're  not  going  to condense  like  water  wood. That's  why  water  cannot  really  be  used  by the  ideal  gas  because  there's interactions  for  it. You  could  say  to  me, Well,  Professor,  I  could,  like, probably  think  of  an  interaction and  then  add  it  to the  formula  and  account  for  it. And  I  would  say,  yes,  you  could. And  that's  what  Vandervls  did. So  Vandervls  wrote  the  second  version of  the  ideal  gas  equation, equation  este,  accounting  for the  size  of  the  molecules and  also  their  interactions. And  that's  what  Vandervls  equation este  there. And  then  that  can  cover  some  of the  phase  transitions  and things  that  we  observed, but  the  ideal  gas  cannot.  Alright? So  some  specifics  or  the  write, so  it's  PV,  so  for  write  like  the  chemists, So  P  volume  in  meters  cubed, number  of  moles,  the  universal gas  constant  and  temperature. Again,  here's  the  notation with  the  units  that  you  have  there. Again,  I'm  reminding  you that  when  you  deal  with  these, always  work  in  Calvin, what  would  happen  if  you wrote  zero  degree  Celsius  in  the  equation? What  would  that  tell  you?  It's  more  simple. It's  like,  if  you  substituted zero  into  this  equation, what  would  happen  to your  pressure  and  your  volume? Basically,  it  wouldn't  happen,  or  if you  wanted  PV  to  be  non  negative, n  it  would  be  infinity  or  something,  right? So  it's  absolute  scales. What  I'm  telling  you,  that's  the  value. You  can  get  this  value  also  by  knowing Avgadro  is  constant  in Boltzman  can  switch  between  them. What  is  it  6.022  times ten  to  the  23rd?  Still  got  it. High  school  days. And  then  Botsman,  Unfortunately, I  don't  remember  Botsman  b  hurt. Sorry.  Exactly. On  ideal  gas  is  one  that obeys  the  laws  in  reality  where  it's  valid, it  depends  on  density,  right? So  things  where  you  have  low  density, molecules  that  don't  really  see  each  other. And  that  can  happen when  you  have  low  pressure, something  like  vacuum  or  very high  temperature, these  gases  work  pretty  well. So  the  ones  that  I  say  here,  I'm not  going  to  read  them  out  loud. I'm  just  going  to  say  out  loud  again, do  not  use  water  for  this. And  if  you  ask  Cat  EPT, Ct  EPT  is  going  to  tell  you  ideal  gas, okay.  So  be  careful. All  right.  You  can  also  write  it  like  this. Here  when  I  write  the  Little  V,  All  right? The  little  V  like  this  with  a  bar,  right? This  is  no  longer  on  a  mass  basis, but  it's  going  to  be  on  a  mole on  a  molar  basis,  right? Meters  cube  per  per  per  mole,  right? And  that's  the  definition  V  divided  by  n, which  is  the  number  of  moles. Exactly. And  then  the  final  thing  to remember  is  that  your  molar  mass, generally,  molar  mass  is given  in  grams  per  mole. Be  careful.  Everything  we  do  is SI,  so  it's  kilograms. Be  sure  to,  you  know,  divide  that by  1,000,  you  know, when  you  use  that  there  for  converting  from the  specific  volume  like  this  to the  specific  volume  on  a  molar  basis, right?  How  do  we  use  this? We're  going  to  use  this  for a  couple  of  things  in  the  course. But  in  general,  we would  use  it  for,  like,  relating  states. Let's  say  you  have  a  process where  you  don't  change  the  volume, you  don't  change  the  amount  of  mass  in  it, you  don't  change  the  composition. So  then,  like  the  P  one  and  T  one  and a  p2p2  ratio  can  be  compared. So  if  let's  say  I  know  P  one,  I  know  T  one, and  I  know  the  temperature  at  T  two, I  can  now  know  P  two,  okay? Yeah.  Yes,  please.  Yeah. It's  like  inelastic,  right? The  correct  term  is  like  inelastic. They  don't  stick,  right? They  hit,  and  then  that's  like  Billiards, right  or  pool,  right  pull  there. Does  that  answer  your  question? Cool.  All  right. Yeah,  so  that's  it. And  so  then  you  can  compare  it. So  that's  what  I'm  calculating. And  again,  in  this  simulator, instead  of  it  being  21.5  is  21.7, I  would  just  note  that  at  these  scales, you  have  fluctuations,  right? This  is  not  like  you  can't  really  take a  thermometer  and  measure it  at  that  small  of  a  scale. So  it's  pretty  close,  right? Again,  water,  things  that  condense,  right? We  don't  use  We  don't  use  in  this  formula. Yeah. So  a  phase  transition, you're  not  going  to  use  it,  you're  going  to use  tables.  It's  unfortunate. It  would  be  awesome  if  we  had a  formula  for  it,  but  actually, water  being  really  complicated, the  way  that  it  is,  you  know, has  has  some  good  benefits. Yeah.  And  we  do  really  have  one  formula. Again,  it  depends  on,  like, 100  sort  of  constants  in  it, and  then  that's  the  point  of  the electronic  tables  as  it goes  and  can  analyze that  formula  and  and  give  you  values,  right? Are  there  any  questions? Are  you  ready  to  use  it? So  what  I  want  to  do here  is  I  want  to  reinforce. So  the  purpose  of  this  exercise  is  to,  like, reinforce  why  you're  going  to  use  the  tables, the  physical,  or  the  electronic  ones. So  you  should  be  able to  all  on  the  slides,  have  this  link. If  you  click  this  link, you're  going  to  be  able  to launch  the  Jupiter notebook  with  these  conditions. So  what  you're  doing  in  this  process  is you're  taking  a  superheated  vapor,  right? So  this  is  basically  a  vapor  that is  at  a  temperature  that's above  its  boiling  point,  right? So  if  a  superheated  vapor, you're  initially  at  5  megapascals, that's  about  50  times  atmospheric  pressure, and  600  cellus,  Cs. That's  Hot. Alright.  And  you're  going  to  cool  this. You're  basically  going  to  cool  down this  vapor  at constant  pressure  until  you  reach a  saturated  vapor. So  what  does  this  look  like? I  recommend  this  whenever you're  solving  any  problem, homework  problem,  exam  problem,  right? Is  you  can  start  off  with  You  know, you  can  start  off  with  sort  of  a  diagram. You  know,  this  is  terrible.  Um, Markers  at. Right? You  can  start  up  with  something  like  this. Maybe  it's  like  a  P,  or I  could  say  you  can  start  off  with a  like  a  TV  diagram. You  got  something  that  looks like  a  dome,  right? So  the  V  when  it's  very,  very  high. This  is  like,  you  know, low.  Low  density,  right? So  this  is  basically  going  to  be your  vapor  out  here. This  is  going  to  be  like your  your  liquid  vapor  here, and  then  you're  going  to  have your  liquid  on  this  side. So  you're  starting  with  something that's  like  a  really  high, pretty  high  temperature  out  there, and  then  you're  told  that  you're  going  to follow  a  constant  pressure  during  cooling. If  you  were  to  look  at  the  TV  diagram, I  believe  it's  going  to  be  like  this. This  is  going  to  be  a  line of  constant  pressure  here. Let's  say  this  is  then  the  five  you  know, the  five  MPA,  you're going  to  cool  until  you  reach this  point  where  the  x  is equal  to  one,  right? So  that's  where  you  have the  saturated  vapor  condition. And  what  this  problem  asks  you  to  do  is  to figure  out  in  going  from,  you  know, this  point  here  at  this  temperature, which  is  600  you  know, Celsius,  what  is actually  this  temperature  here. All  right?  So  if  you  launch  this, if  you  click  this, one  of  the  members  of your  group  click  this  and  launch  it, you'll  be  able  to  read  through  that, see  the  different  steps. And  then  ultimately,  with  that, there's  enough  information  there that  you  should  be  able to  determine  the  T  two. And  then  the  second  part  of  the  problem, again,  when  you  look  at  the  code, you're  going  to  then  be  able  to take  from  determining  at  this  stage  here, you're  also  going  to  learn  what the  specific  volume  is. So  by  knowing  the  pressure,  right? So  the  P  you  know  because  it  doesn't  change. And  you  know  the  specific  volume, let's  say,  from  the  case  that you  determine  with  water. What  I  want  you  to  then  calculate  is  T two  for  the  ideal  gas. And  you're  going  to  compare the  temperature  two  of the  ideal  gas  with  the  one  that  you have  from  the  first  part about  the  water  vapor. Okay?  If  that all  sounds  very  confusing  to  you. Just  click  that  link,  launch  it, and  everything  will  become  a bit  more  logical  with  it. Are  there  any  questions about  this  before  we  get  started? And  I'm  sorry  they're doing  two  activities  last  week. We  didn't  Monday,  we  didn't have  enough  time  to  finish  the  other  one. Okay?  Let's  get  started, right?  So  about  5  minutes. Alright,  M  Guinea  pig  group, is  it  equal  to  lunch  or  no. Yes. Does  it  work  now? Yeah.  Does  that  work?  Okay,  great. Does  it  work last  week. This  is.  Okay.  But  I think  there  was  a  part  down  here  for  S. Yeah.  I  see. I  just  Okay. Massive  massive Is  the  notebook  working  though? I  see.  I  see. I  can  also  go  that. Is  the  the  same  one  that's  the  folder. One  that  I  just  wrote  though  very  recently. And  so  it's  the  one  that should  launch  directly  from. So  it's  called  cooling  superheated vapor  is  the  one. Is  the  script  that'll  launch. No  water  proper.  Cooling  superheated  vapor is  the  one  you  want  to  launch.  Yeah. So  just  to  sorry  to  interrupt  with  it, but,  you  know,  if  you click  this  link  here,  it  will  launch. The  file  is  called  cooling  superheated  vapor. There  is  another  one  that's  water  properties, that's  kind  of  fine,  but it's  not  exactly  this  process. That  would  take  more  than  5  minutes  to go  through  and  determine  that,  okay? So  if  you  just  click  that,  that  should launch  the  one  that  you  need  to  look  at. Can  I  squeeze  by  you  here? My  cash.  Yeah.  I'm  very  sorry  for this. I'm  very  sorry. So  it  reads  is  that,  but then  basically  what's  hidden  in the  is  the  other  script. That's  my  bad  for  that. I  really  apologize.  What  is  the  best  way? The  best  way  to  do  this  now  would  be to  export  this  and  to overwrite  export  three  B.  Place. Okay.  So  the  PDF  that's  now  on  B  course  is, if  you  were  to  go  to  that  in  that  link, that  should  work. Okay. And  maybe  since  I  did such  a  bad  job  with  that, what  I  can  do  right  now  is, I  mean, to  basically  efficiently  get  us  there. I  can  sort  of  take  you  through  this. And  then  what  I  would  recommend  to  do afterwards  is  to  look  this  over  a  bit, because  again,  I  feel  it's  a  very  handy  tool, especially  on  the  homeworks. There  it's  much  more convenient  to  work  with  this than  with  the  tables. Otherwise,  I  generally  refrain  from, like  writing coding  class  and  walking  through, just  because  I  had  a  hidden  link. I  mean,  I  don't  even  understand  what  that. So,  so  in  this  case,  what  the  problem, are  you  were  given  cooling  of  a  superheated vapor  at  constant  pressure. So  I'm  telling  you  here  it's  the  600  Celsius and  five  MPA. You  guys  have  a  question,  or  is it  okay?  All  right. So  the  saturated  vapors, you're  going  to  cool there  at  constant  pressure until  you  get  to  the  X  two, the  quality  being  able  to  one, one  derm  in  the  pressure, the  temperature  of  the  vapor, and  then  the  same  thing  for the  corresponding  ideal  gas. So  again,  I  can  give  it  in  Celsius. I  can  give  it  in  KPA. Again,  this  is  a  lot  of  times  what the  tables  are  working  in are  these  sort  of  pressures. D  your  conversions  into  MPA  and into  Kelvin.  Run  this. I  run  through  here,  I  run  through here.  I  run  through  here. Install  the  module  here. I  import  it  as  this, the  IP  WS  97. And  then  to  the  point  about  this. So  the  way  that  we  you  know, determine  the  properties  of all  the  properties  of  water  at that  state  is  we  just  say  that this  variable  is  equal  to  this  command, right,  which  is  here,  and  then the  two  thermyamic  properties. So  in  this  case,  the  pressure  we give  and  the  temperature. And  that's  acceptable  because  you know  that  it's  in  the  you're pretty  sure  that's  a  very  hot  temperature and  a  very  high  pressure, so  you're  pretty  confident that  that's  super  heated, and  that's  enough,  you  know,  information. And  then  when  you  want  to extract  the  other  parameters, all  you  do  is  you  write  that  variable dot  something  dot  S  is  entropy, H  is  Np,  V  specific  volume  U  internal  energy. So  we  run  that,  run  that. We  can  print  it.  So  here  we can  print  the  entropy,  volume, enthalpy  and  internal  energy. So  that's  all  great. And  then  we  can  come  to  part  two. So  we  say,  k,  I  know my  second  pressure  is equal  to  my  first  pressure. My  quality  is  equal  to  one, right?  Cause  it's  a  vapor. So  if  it's  at a  saturated  state  and  it's  all  vapor, the  X  equals  to  one, that  should  be  automatic. And  then  we  define  the  properties.  Water  two. That's  our  command.  P  is equal  to  p  is  equal  to  the  P  two, and  then  the  x  is  then  equal  to  X  two. And  just  like  before,  you  know  everything. So  now  all  you  need  to  do  is  go this  variable  here  SVT. What  you  need  to  know  is temperature,  that  was  requested. The  P  we've  already  figured  out from  the  information  provided. You  can  print  that.  And  that's  very  fast. You  have  the  temperature  there. And  again,  I  just  want  to  emphasize that  is  so  much  more  simple  than flipping  through  books  in the  manual  way  before. So  I  like  to  plot  these  things. This  is  a  little  bit  fancier, not  something  you  necessarily  have  to  do, but  you  can  go  with  this  and then  plot  the  process. So  remember,  I  showed  you the  TV  diagram  here. This  is  my  guess  as  to as  to  how  it  would  look. So  we  started  up  at a  much  higher  temperature. The  left  side  in  the  right  side  here. This  is  the  dome,  right? The  lines  of  saturation. So  we  started  off  up  here. I  draw  the  dash  line  for  the  IO  bar, and  you  basically  go  from  this  condition to  this  condition. And  that's  how  it  looks  like  on a  TV  on  a  TV  diagram. And  again,  a  lot  of  times  on exams,  and  in  the  homework, I'm  going  to  specifically  request you  to  first  of  all, orient  yourself  in  a  process. So  draw  me  one  of  these  diagrams, show  me  where  you  think  you're  starting, show  me  where  you  think  you're  ending. If  you  get  that  right,  it's  great. If  you  get  it  wrong,  it  really  helps me  to  understand  what your  thinking  is,  right? Which  is  how  I  assess  you.  I'm  interested in  your  logic,  where  you're  thinking. So  if  you  if  you  start  off  at, like  a  wrong  initial  condition, but  every  other  step  after  that  is  right, right,  you're  graded  proportionally  on  it. And  that's  why  I  like  you  to  draw and  give  me  as  much  information. I  want  to  help  you, right,  in  a  sense. You  do  the  same  thing  now  for  the  P, for  a  PV  diagram. Again,  that's  how  the  dome  looks like  on  a  PV  diagram. We're  drawing  a  couple  of  the  isotherms. So  you  have  this  initial  temperature that  you're  starting  at, which  is  the  hot  one. And  then  you're  cooling down  to  this  other  isotherm,  which  is  here. And  because  it's  a  constant  pressure  process, right, you  would  expect  that,  you  know, going  there  to  there should  be  the  same  pressure,  right? I  should  be  a  line  from right  to  left  with  it. And  because  you're  cooling, you  might  have  an  expectation that  the  density  should  be  increasing, which  means  the  specific  volume should  be  decreasing,  right? So  these  things  make  sense,  right? Coming  back  to  the  last  part  of  the  question, so  we  can  now  compare  this  answer that  we  had  with  the  ideal  gas. So  we  said,  Okay, the  first  pressure  is equal  to  the  second  one. Great.  I  have  that  for  the  ideal  gas. We  know  the  ideal  gas  constant. And  what  we'll  assume, and  that's  what  was  given  above  is  you assume  that  the  V  that  you  had  here, the  specific  volume  that  you  had here  from  the  case  of  the  water  vapor, you  can  use  that  then  for  this. You'll  rearrange  your  ideal  gas  equation, so  the  temperature  is nothing  but  the  pressure, the  molar  volume  and divided  by  the  ideal  gas  constant. That's  how  that  looks  like. So  the  only  thing  you  have  to  take into  account  is  the  conversion from  the  V  two,  right? Which  is  on  a  per  mass  basis. You  got  to  multiply  by  the  you  know, mass  per  moles  of  the  molecule, and  then  you  get  the  molar  volume. And  if  you  run  that,  what  you  will  see  from the  ideal  gas  equation  is  that that's  427  Kalvin,  okay? That's  like,  pretty  wrong,  right? You  know,  that's  not  like  a  rounding  error. I  mean,  you're  really  measuring  now. You're  off  by  the  third  digit,  right? Or  the  leading  digit  with  it. Okay?  So  I  just  want to  really,  like,  emphasize, don't  use  the  ideal  gas  equation  for  water. Okay.  So  next  time, I'll  be  sure  to  check  the  link, so  we  don't  have a  hiccup  in  a  snafu  like  that. Are  there  any  questions  about  anything  about this  before  I  wrap  up  for  today's  lecture? Yes,  please.  Yes. Here,  this  is  an  isobar. So  if  you  go  on  here,  for  example, with  this,  and  if  you  look  at  this  code, this  is  a  line  of  constant  pressure. So  a  lot  of  times  that's very  helpful  in  engineering. You  basically  draw  lines  of constant  temperature  and  constant  pressure, and  especially  when  there's an  initial  and  a  final, and  it  helps  to  orient  yourself  with  it. Okay.  We'll  do  that  a  lot. Alright.  We  still  have  5  minutes, let  me  just  get  with  it. Okay,  so  how  does  it  look  like  you could  go  and  you  could  actually  compute  this? So  in  this  case  here, you  have  one  of  the  TV  diagram, and  you  can  see  here  plotted with  the  so  for  water. This  is  the  case  of  water.  And  then what  would  happen  if  you were  to  compute  then  the values  using  ideal  gas, and  you  can  see  out  here. In  this  zone,  the  errors  are  very  low,  right? Cause  you're  at  a  very  low density  region  and  a  high  temperature. But  as  soon  as  you  get  down  into these  regions,  into  here, the  error  is  becoming  quite  large, and  the  ideal  gas  is  not  going  to  predict something  like  a  condensed  state,  right? Vandervals  will. So  Vandervals  can  do  that. If  you  look  in  your  reading  for  this  week, you  will  see  that  as  an  equation  of  state. That  doesn't  do  too  bad  of  a  job. And  most  modern  day  usages of  equation  of  state  for  kind  of simple  liquids  that  undergo  transitions  are like  modified  forms  of  Vandervals. Okay?  So,  I  want to  close  basically  with  this. So  I  told  you  you  after  today, you  can  describe  this  ideal  gas and  the  ideal  gas  equation  estate. I  give  a  typical  problem  with  the  PT. So  this  ratio.  I  know  initial  pressure. I  know  an  initial  temperature. I  know  a  final  pressure or  a  final  temperature, and  you're  able  to  compute that  other  unknown  quantity. We're  going  to  expand  upon  that. That  kind  of  ratios  between  pressures, temperatures  and  volumes  is  going  to  be important  for  a  lot  of  the  work  process. Think  engines.  I  think  about  engines. So  think  about,  like  diesel, think  about  auto,  and  all  of  that. Those  types  of  ratios  are  going  to  be helpful  in  computing  properties. There,  and  I  pointed out  to  you  where  not  to  use  it. So  when  are  you  not  going  to use  an  ideal  gas  equation? W.  You're  not  going  to  use  it  for  that,  okay? So  a  that,  I'm  gonna close  it  here  a  little  bit  early. If  any  of  you  have  questions, I  think  if  few  of  you  did, please  come  up  to  the  front,  then we  can  answer.  Thank  you.
