Today  in  three  B,  we're  going  to  cover property  tables  and  ideal  gases. The  first  thing  I  want  to  announce  though, is  that  here,  there's  been a  few  questions  to  me  about  like exam  dates  and  all  this  and  that. Instead  of  me  burying  it  like  within the  first  lecture  slides. I've  made  a  file  here. I  put  it  below  syllabus, so  you  can  check  that  out. The  final  exam  is  announced, so  it's  currently  Tuesday. Week  of  finals  from  7:00  P.M.  To  10:00 P.M.  That's  terrible  if you  have  children  to  take  care  of. So  I  have  tried  to  appeal this  and  see  what  I  can  do. Has  anyone  here  taken  an  exam here  at  7:00  P.M.  Before? Okay,  so  I  might  be  a  losing  battle, but  I'm  going  to  try,  anyways  with  it. With  the  prairie  test, we  had  119  reservations, which  I  think  is  acceptable,  right? As  79%.  So  think  about that  in  a  grade.  With  it. I  know  a  few  of  you  were  able  to go  through  it  and  see  the  environment more  details  on  how  we'll  conduct it  for  mid  term  one  will  come. Anecdotal  feedback,  things  to communicate  with  me  or  an  e mail  are  also  appreciated. Things  that  were  good  could  be  better, and  then  I  can  compile  those  with  it. With  wait  list.  I  anyone here  still  on  the  wait  list  for  this  course? One.  So  it's  going  to  be  cleared, we've  increased  it  up  to  160, so  hopefully  not  hopefully, everyone  who  wants  to  be  in  here  will be  able  to  be  in  here.  Okay  okay? Great.  Group  work. So  last  week,  no,  week. Last  lecture.  We'd  given this  problem  with  the  TV  diagram, and  we're  discussing  saturated  S. States.  Look,  animated. And  now  I  dented  this.  That's  great. Um  Oh,  this  is  less  than  ideal. Okay.  TV  diagram,  you  know,  there, we're  looking  at  a  saturated  liquid, at  T  equals  80  degrees  C. We've  picked  on  the  diagram  where  we  were. What  I'd  like  to  do  now  is  to go  back  into  similar  groups. So  groups  of  four  and answer  questions  two,  three,  and  four. Namely,  what's  the  pressure  inside the  container,  the  specific  volume. And  then  given  the  mass,  that's  here, what's  the  overall  volume  of  the  container. Okay? Are  there  any  questions  about  this  activity? Alright,  let's  go.  Yeah.  So  today, we're  going  to  talk  about  this  ideal  gas. And  then  we're  going  to  talk  a  bit  about the  ideal  gas  equation of  state,  right? So,  remember,  I  showed  you  this  plot  before this  surface  plot  that Maxwell  had  made,  right? We're  showing  all  the  different  P  V  and  T, and  then  the  different  states, you  know,  with  it. If  you  wanted  to  represent right  the  properties  you know,  like,  let's  say, a  holy  grail  of  thermo  would be  have  a  formula  that  would  be able  to  define  all  of  that  and  give  you all  the  properties  at  each  of  those  points. And  that  equation,  we  would  call an  equation  of  state. So  P  V  and  T,  right? You're  familiar  with  the  ideal  gas  equation. Right.  So,  I  mean,  you  have  this  typically introduced  in  chemistry, sometimes  physics  there. You're  not  really  told  y,  right? It's  kind  of  handed  to  you. Historically, it  also  kind  of  developed  that  way. One's  called  Boyle's  law. You  know,  various  laws  that  eventually were  combined  into  one. And  you  can  write  it  as  PV is  equal  to  M  RT,  right? That's  the  chemistry  way,  M  is  molar, and  R  is  the  ideal  gas  constant, right  energy  per  mole  per  Kelvin. You  can  also  write  it  like  the  physicist  way, which  is  then  PV  is  equal  to  n,  KT, where  n  is  the  number  of  molecules, and  K  is  Boltzmann  constant, right  I  basically  molecules. Per  energy  per  molecule  per  Kelvin  there. And  so  what  this  really  says is  if  I  took  this  ratio  of  PV, N  KT  or  PV  divided  by  MRT, that  should  be  a  constant  value,  right? Because  the  equation  itself. And  so  if  you  go  to  our  simulator, again,  I  don't  know,  maybe  last  year, I  had  a  better  thing, but  you  could  go  into  the  simulator, and  you  could  start  to  vary some  of  these  quantities,  right? You  could  go  in  and  vary, for  example,  you  know, the  number  of  molecules that  are  in  there,  you  could  vary, like  the  temperature  that's  in there  across  stated  different. You  vary  the  volume of  what  you're  dealing  with, and,  you  know,  do  that  in  Excel  file. You  don't  have  to  do  yourself. I  did  it  for  you last  year  in  this  poorly  recorded  video. But  the  point  is  that  you  could  then compute  the  ratio  of  those  parameters, the  PV  divided  by  the  NKT. And  what  you  would  see at  the  end  of  it  is  that within  reason  for  this  simulator, Most  of  these  values  would be  approximately  a  constant. And  I'm  asking  you  to  trust me  with  this  because  of the  resolution  limitations  with  it,  right? And  so,  again,  where  this  equation  is valid  is  this  kind of  billiard  balls  scenario, where  these  things  don't  stick,  right? Everything  is  just  like  collisions. There's  nothing  sticking  to  each  other, right? So  this  is  something  where  there's, physically, we  would  say  no  intermolecular  interactions, right? So  these  things  are  not  going  to bind  or  they're  not  going  to condense  like  water  wood. That's  why  water  cannot really  be  used  by  the  ideal  gas, because  there's  interactions  for  it. You  could  say  to  me,  Well, Professor,  I  could  like, probably  think  of  an  interaction and  then  add  it  to the  formula  and  account  for  it, and  I  would  say,  yes,  you  could. And  that's  what  Vanderval  did. So  Vandervls  wrote  the  second  version of  the  ideal  gas  equation, equation  este,  accounting  for the  size  of  the  molecules and  also  their  interactions. And  that's  a  Vandervls  equation  estate  there. And  then  that  can  cover  some  of the  phase  transitions  and things  that  we  observed, what  the  ideal  gas  cannot. Alright?  So  some  specifics  or  the  right, so  it's  P  V, so  you  write  it  like  the  chemists,  right. So  P  volume  in meters  cubed  and  number  of  moles, the  universal  gas  constant  and  temperature. Again,  here's  the  notation with  the  units  that  you  have  there. Again,  I'm  reminding  you that  when  you  deal  with  these, always  work  in  Calvin, what  would  happen  if  you wrote  zero  degrees  Celsius  in  the  equation? What  would  that  tell  you?  It's  more  simple. It's  like  if  you  substituted zero  into  this  equation, what  would  happen  to your  pressure  and  your  volume? Basically,  it  wouldn't  happen,  or  if you  wanted  PV  to  be  non  negative, n  it  would  be  infinity  or  something,  right? So  it's  absolute  scales, what  I'm  telling  you,  That's  the  value. You  can  get  this  value  also  by knowing  Avagadro  is  constant  in  Boltzman, right?  You  can  switch  between  them. What  is  it  6.022  times  ten  to  23rd? Still  got  it.  High  school  days. And  then  Boltzman  unfortunately  I don't  remember  Botsman  B  t.  Sorry. Exactly.  A  ideal  gas  is  one  that obeys  the  laws  in  reality  where  it's  valid, it  depends  on  density,  right? So  things  where  you  have  low  density, molecules  that  don't  really  see  each  other. And  that  can  happen when  you  have  low  pressure, something  like  vacuum  or very  high  temperature, these  gases  work  pretty  well. So  the  ones  that  I  say  here, I'm  not  going  to  read  them  out  loud. I'm  just  going  to  say  out  loud  again, do  not  use  water  for  this. And  if  you  ask  Cat  PT, C  EPT  is  going  to  tell  you  ideal  gas, okay?  So  be  careful. All  right.  You  can  also  write  it  like  this. Here  when  I  write  the  Little  V,  All  right? The  little  V  like  this  with  a  bar,  right? This  is  no  longer  on  a  mass  basis, but  it's  going  to  be  on  a  mole on  a  molar  basis,  right? Meters  cube  per  per  per  mole,  right? And  that's  the  definition  V  divided  by  n, which  is  the  number  of  moles. Exactly. And  then  the  final  thing  to remember  is  that  your  molar  mass. Generally,  molar  mass  is given  in  grams  per  mole. Be  careful.  Everything  we  do  is SI,  so  it's  kilograms. Be  sure  to,  you  know,  divide  that by  1,000,  you  know, when  you  use  that  there  for  converting from  the  specific  volume like  this  to  the  specific  volume on  a  molar  basis,  right? How  do  we  use  this? We're  going  to  use  this  for a  couple  of  things  in  the  course. But  in  general,  we would  use  it  for  like  relating  states. Let's  say  you  have  a  process where  you  don't  change  the  volume, you  don't  change  the  amount  of  mass  in  it, you  don't  change  the  composition. So  then,  like  the  P  one  and  T  one  and a  p2p2  ratio  can  be  compared. So  if  let's  say  I  know  P  one,  I  know  T  one, and  I  know  the  temperature  at  T  two, I  can  now  know  P  two,  okay?  Yeah. Yes,  please. Yeah.  It's  like  inelastic,  right? The  correct  term  is  like  inelastic. They  don't  stick,  right? They  hit,  and  then  that's like  billiards,  right  or  pool,  right? Pull  pull  there. Does  that  answer  your  question? Cool.  All  right. Yeah,  so  that's  it. And  so  then  you  can  compare  it. So  that's  what  I'm  calculating. And  again,  in  this  simulator, instead  of  it  being  21.5  is  21.7, I  would  just  note  that  at  these  scales, you  have  fluctuations,  right? This  is  not  like  you  can't  really  take a  thermometer  and  measure it  at  that  small  of  a  scale. So  it's  pretty  close,  right? Again,  water,  things  that  condense,  right? We  don't  use  We  don't  use  in  this  formula. Yeah.  So  a  phase transition,  you're  not  going  to  use  it. You're  going  to  use  tables.  It's  unfortunate. It  would  be  awesome  if  we had  a  formula  for  it, but  actually  water  being  really  complicated, the  way  that  it  is,  you  know, has  has  some  good  benefits. Yeah.  And  we  do  really  have  one  formula. Again,  it  depends  on, like  100  sort  of  constants  in  it, and  then  that's  the  point  of  the electronic  tables  as  it goes  and  can  analyze that  formula  and  and  give  you  values. All  right?  Are  there  any  questions? Are  you  ready  to  use  it?  So  what I  want  to  do  here  is  I  want  to  reinforce. So  the  purpose  of  this  exercise  is  to,  like, reinforce  why  you're  going  to  use  the  tables, the  physical,  or  the  electronic  ones. So  you  should  be  able to  all  on  the  slides,  have  this  link. If  you  click  this  link, you're  going  to  be  able  to  launch the  Jupiter  notebook  with  these  conditions. So  what  you're  doing  in  this  process  is you're  taking  a  superheated  vapor,  right? So  this  is  basically  a  vapor  that is  at  a  temperature  that's above  its  boiling  point,  right? So  if  a  superheated  vapor, you're  initially  at  5  megapascals, that's  about  50  times  atmospheric  pressure, and  600  cellus,  Cs.  That's Hot,  right?  And  you're  going  to  cool  this. You're  basically  going  to  cool  down this  vapor  at constant  pressure  until  you reach  a  saturated  vapor. So  what  does  this  look  like? I  recommend  this  whenever you're  solving  any  problem, homework  problem,  exam  problem,  right? I  is  you  can  start  off  with, you  know,  you  can  start  off with  sort  of  a  diagram. You  know,  this  is  terrible. Um,  markers  at. So  you  can  start  up  with  something  like  this, maybe  it's  like  a  P  or I  could  say  you  can  start  off  with a  like  a  TV  diagram. You  got  something  that  looks  like  a  dome. So  the  V  when  it's  very,  very  high. This  is  like  low  density,  right? This  is  basically  going  to  be your  vapor  out  here. This  is  going  to  be  like your  your  liquid  vapor  here, and  then  you're  going  to  have your  liquid  on  this  side. So  you  started  with  something  that's  like a  really  high  pretty high  temperature  out  there, and  then  you're  told  that  you're  going  to follow  a  constant  pressure  during  cooling. If  you  were  to  look  at  the  TV  diagram, I  believe  it's  going  to  be  like  this, this  is  going  to  be  like  a  line of  constant  pressure  here. Let's  say  this  is  then  the five,  the  five  MPA. You're  going  to  cool  until you  reach  this  point  where the  x  is  equal  to  one,  right? So  that's  where  you  have the  saturated  vapor  condition. And  what  this  problem  asks  you  to do  is  to  figure  out  in going  from  this  point here  at  this  temperature, which  is  600  you  know, Celsius,  what  is actually  this  temperature  here. All  right?  So  if  you  launch  this, if  you  click  this, one  of  the  members  of your  group  click  this  and  launch  it, you'll  be  able  to  read  through  that, see  the  different  steps. And  then  ultimately,  with  that, there's  enough  information  there that  you  should  be  able to  determine  the  T  two. And  then  the  second  part  of  the  problem, again,  when  you  look  at  the  code, you're  going  to  then  be  able  to take  from  determining  at  this  stage  here, you're  also  going  to  learn  what the  specific  volume  is. So  by  knowing  the  pressure,  right? So  the  P  you  know  because  it  doesn't  change. And  you  know  the  specific  volume, let's  say,  from  the  case  that you  determine  with  water. What  I  want  you  to  then  calculate  is  T two  for  the  ideal  gas. And  you're  going  to  compare the  temperature  two  of the  ideal  gas  with  the  one  that  you  have from  the  first  part  about the  water  vapor.  Okay? If  that  all  sounds  very  confusing  to  you. Just  click  that  link,  launch  it, and  everything  will  become  a bit  more  logical  with  it. Are  there  any  questions  about this  before  we  get  started? And  I'm  sorry  they  were  doing two  activites  last  week, we  didn't  Monday,  we  didn't have  enough  time  to  finish  the  other  one. Okay?  Let's  get  started,  right? So  about  5  minutes. So,  okay,  so  in  this  case, what  the  problem  are you  were  given  cooling  of a  superheated  vapor  at  constant  pressure. So  I'm  telling  you  here  it's  the  600  Celsius and  five  MPA. You  guys  have  a  question,  or  is  it  okay? All  right.  So  the  saturated  vapors. You're  going  to  cool  it  at  constant  pressure until  you  get  to  the  X  two, the  quality  being  able  to  one, one  undermine  the  pressure, the  temperature  of  the  vapor, and  then  the  same  thing  for the  corresponding  ideal  gas. So  again,  I  can  give  it  in  Celsius. I  can  give  it  in  KPA. Again,  this  is  a  lot  of  times  what the  tables  are  working  in are  these  sort  of  pressures. Do  your  conversions  into  MPA  and  into  Kelvin. Run  this.  I  run  through  here, I  run  through  here.  I  run  through  here. Install  the  module  here. I  import  it  as  this, the  IP  WS  97. And  then  to  the  point  about  this. So  the  way  that  we,  you  know, determine  the  properties  of all  the  properties  of  water  at that  state  is  we  just  say  that this  variable  is  equal  to  this  command, right,  which  is  here,  and  then the  two  dermyamic  properties. So,  in  this  case,  the  pressure  we give,  and  the  temperature. And  that's  acceptable because  you  know  that  it's  in  the you're  pretty  sure  that's  a  very  hot temperature  and  a  very  high  pressure, so  you're  pretty  confident that  that's  super  heated, and  that's  enough,  you  know,  information. And  then  when  you  want  to extract  the  other  parameters, all  you  do  is  you  write  that  variable dot  something  dot  S  is  entropy, H  as  enthalpy,  v specific  volume,  U  internal  energy. So  we  run  that, run  that.  You  can  print  it. So  here  we  can  print  the  entropy, volume,  enthalpy  and  internal  energy. So  that's  all  great.  And  then we  can  come  to  part  two. So  we  say,  Okay,  I  know my  second  pressure  is equal  to  my  first  pressure. My  quality  is  equal  to  one, right?  Because  it's  a  vapor. So  if  it's  at a  saturated  state  and  it's  all  vapor, the  X  equals  to  one, that  should  be  automatic. And  then  we  define  the  properties. Water  two.  That's  our  command. P  is  equal  to  p  is  equal  to  the  P  two, and  then  the  x  is  then  equal  to  X  two. And  just  like  before,  you  know  everything. So  now  all  you  need  to  do  is  go this  variable  here  S,  HUT. What  you  need  to  know  is temperature,  that  was  requested. The  P  we've  already  figured  out from  the  information  provided. You  can  print  that. And  that's  very  fast,  right? You  have  the  temperature  there. And  again,  I  just  want  to  emphasize that  is  so  much  more  simple  than flipping  through  books  in the  manual  way  before. I  like  to  plot  these  things. This  is  a  little  bit  fancier, not  something  you  necessarily  have  to  do, but  you  can  go  with  this  and then  plot  the  process. So  remember,  I  showed  you the  TV  diagram  here. This  is  my  guess  as  to as  to  how  it  would  look. So  we  started  up  at a  much  higher  temperature. The  left  side  in  the  right  side  here. This  is  the  dome, right  the  lines  of  saturation. So  we  started  off  up  here. I  draw  the  dash  line  for  the  IO  bar, and  you  basically  go  from  this  condition to  this  condition. And  that's  how  it  looks  like  on a  TV  on  a  TV  diagram. And  again,  a  lot  of  times  on exams,  and  in  the  homework, I'm  going  to  specifically  request you  to  first  of  all, orient  yourself  in  a  process. So  draw  me  one  of  these  diagrams, show  me  where  you  think  you're  starting, show  me  where  you  think  you're  ending. If  you  get  that  right,  it's  great. If  you  get  it  wrong,  it  really  helps  me to  understand  what  your  thinking  is,  right? Which  is  how  I  ass  you.  I'm  interested in  your  logic,  where  you're  thinking. So  if  you  if  you  start  off at  like  a  wrong  initial  condition, but  every  other  step  after  that  is  right, right,  you're  graded  proportionally  on  it. And  that's  why  I  like  you  to  draw and  give  me  as  much  information. I  want  to  help  you, right,  in  a  sense. I'm  going  to  do  the  same  thing  now  for  the  P, for  a  PV  diagram. Again,  that's  how  the  dome  looks like  on  a  PV  diagram. We're  drawing  a  couple  of  the  isotherms. So  you  have  this  initial  temperature that  you're  starting  at, which  is  the  hot  one. And  then  you're  cooling down  to  this  other  isotherm,  which  is  here. And  because  it's  a  constant  pressure  process, right, you  would  expect  that,  you  know, going  there  to  there should  be  the  same  pressure,  right? It  should  be  a  line  from right  to  left  with  it. And  because  you're  cooling, you  might  have  an  expectation that  the  density  should  be  increasing, which  means  the  specific  volume should  be  decreasing,  right? So  these  things  make  sense,  right? Coming  back  to  the  last  part  of  the  question, so  we  can  now  compare  this  answer that  we  had  with  the  ideal  gas. So  we  said,  Okay,  the  first  pressure  is equal  to  the  second  one.  Great. I  have  that  for  the  ideal  gas. We  know  the  ideal  gas  constant. And  what  we'll  assume, and  that's  what  was  given  above  is  you assume  that  the  V  that  you  had  here, the  specific  volume  that  you  had here  from  the  case  of  the  water  vapor, you  can  use  that  then  for  this. You'll  rearrange  your  ideal  gas  equation, so  the  temperature  is nothing  but  the  pressure, the  molar  volume  and divided  by  the  ideal  gas  constant. That's  how  that  looks  like. So  the  only  thing  you  have  to  take  into account  is  the  conversion from  the  V  two,  right? Which  is  on  a  per  mass  basis. You  go  to  multiply  by  the  you  know, mass  per  moles  of  the  molecule, and  then  you  get  the  molar  volume. And  if  you  run  that,  what  you  will  see  from the  ideal  gas  equation  is  that that's  427  Kalvin,  okay? That's  like,  pretty  wrong,  right? You  know,  that's  not  like  a  rounding  error. I  mean,  you're  really  measuring  now. You're  off  by  the  third  digit,  right? Or  the  leading  digit  with  it. Okay?  So  I  just  want to  really,  like,  emphasize, don't  use  the  ideal  gas  equation  for  water. Okay.  So  next  time, I'll  be  sure  to  check the  link  so  we  don't  have a  hiccup  in  a  snafu  like  that. Are  there  any  questions  about  anything about  this  before  I  wrap up  for  today's  lecture?  Yes,  please. Yes.  Here,  this  is  an  isobar. So  if  you  go  on  here,  for  example, with  this,  and  if  you  look  at  this  code, this  is  a  line  of  constant  pressure. So  a  lot  of  times  that's very  helpful  in  engineering. You  basically  draw  lines  of constant  temperature  and  constant  pressure, and  especially  when  there's an  initial  and  a  final, and  it  helps  to  orient  yourself  with  it. Okay.  We'll  do  that  a  lot. Alright,  we  still  compute  this. So  in  this  case  here, you  have  one  of  the  TV  diagram, and  you  can  see  here  plotted  with the  so  for  water,  this  is  the  case  of  water. And  then  what  would  happen if  you  were  to  compute then  the  values  using  ideal  gas, and  you  can  see  out  here, in  this  zone,  the  errors  are  very  low,  right? Because  you're  at  a  very  low density  region  and  a  high  temperature. But  as  soon  as  you  get  down  into these  regions,  into  here, the  error  is  becoming  quite  large, and  the  ideal  gas  is  not  going  to  predict something  like  a  condensed  state,  right? Vandervals  will. So  Vandervals  can  do  that. If  you  look  in  your  reading  for  this  week, you  will  see  that  as  an  equation  of  state. That  doesn't  do  too  bad  of  a  job. And  most  modern  day  usages of  equation  of  state  for  kind  of simple  liquids that  undergo  transitions  are  like modified  forms  of  Vandervals,  ok? So,  I  want  to  close  basically  with  this. So  I  told  you  you  after  today, you  can  describe  this  ideal  gas and  the  ideal  gas  equation  estate. I  give  a  typical  problem  with  the  PT,  right? So  this  ratio,  I  know  initial  pressure. I  know  an  initial  temperature. I  know  a  final  pressure or  a  final  temperature, and  you're  able  to  compute that  other  unknown  quantity. We're  going  to  expand  upon  that. That  kind  of  ratios  between  pressures, temperatures, and  volumes  is  going  to  be  important for  a  lot  of  the  work  process. Think  engines.  I  think  about  engines. So  think  about,  like  Diesel, think  about  auto,  and  all  of  that. Those  types  of  ratios  are  going  to  be helpful  in  computing  properties.  There. And  I  pointed  out  to  you  where  not  to  use  it. So  when  are  you  not  going  to use  an  ideal  gas  equation? Water.  You're  not  going  to  use  it  for  that. Okay?  So  at  that,  I'm gonna  close  it  here  a  little  bit  early. If  any  of  you  have  questions, I  think  ifew  of  you  did, please  come  up  to  the  front, and  we  can  answer.  Thank  you.
