Yeah.  There's  no  study  in  that. There's  no  steady. Definite  There's  no  e  rates. We  don't  deal  with  rates  here. I  technically. Sure.  I  can  understand  the  concept  of re  because  in  a  close  system, all  of  this  is  to  be  conserva You  mean  it  means  it's  the  same  thing  though. The  only  thing  when  it's  closed  is  that  you can't  add  mass  or  take  mass  out. So  it's  the  same  equation,  right? You  just  don't  normally  do  it  in  a  rate. You  normally  say,  I'll transfer  some  work,  I'll  transfer  some  heat, or  I'll  transfer  work  or  heat in  or  out  when  it's  closed. I  guess  the  reason  I'm confused  the  change  in  energy  is  zeros because  I  thought  that  I  thought  that  isn't the  total  energy  supposed to  remain  the  same?  No. That's  true.  The  first  law  says, the  change  of  energy  in  that  control  volume, Delta  U  plus  KP  is  equal to  The  work  in  heat  in  or  work  out  heat  out. So  if  the  change in  the  control  volume  is  zero, it  means  either  that no  work  in  heat  is  transferred  in  or the  amount  of  heat  transferred  in  is  equal  to the  amount  of  work  transferred  out  there. Oh,  okay.  So  the  first, the  first  doesn't  actually  say,  like, like  it  only  means  that  it  only  needs that  this  change  in toll  energy  is  equal  to  this  ct. Yeah.  I's  like  again, the  bank  account  example. So  the  control  volume  that energy  in  there  is  your  bank  account,  right? And  the  amount  that  that  changes depends  on  how  much  income I  have  in  or  how  much expenses  in  that  I  have. I  had  was  like  I kept  thinking  of  as  equal  to  Sure. Oh,  yeah,  don't  think  that  way.  E. But  the  thing  is  when  we get  into  the  rate  format, we  go  to  the  rates,  when  usually we  have  masses  flowing  in  and  out. There,  we  tend  to  say that  the  change  of the  energy  in  that  control  volume, the  rate  of  change  of  energy  in that  control  volume  is  zero,  right? And  for  a  lot  of  systems  that  is  true. For  a  lot  of  these  systems, the  turbines,  compressors,  that's  true. And  that's  why  I  try  to  emphasize  it  so  much. The  difference  between open  and  closed  systems because  the  mentality  is  very  different. And  your  case  here, your  questions  exemplify  that. So  they're  good  questions. It's  a  weird  subject. It's  a  very  weird  subject. Okay,  guys,  1  second. Yes.  I.  Yes.  I  got  1461. Sure.  But  I  was  still wondering  I  can  look  into  it, but  I  don't  have  the  details  now. You  can.  I  don't  know  if  I'll respond  very  soon,  but  yes,  send  it. You  can  also  e  mail  the  GSIs  for  the  reader. Yes.  No,  I  don't  give  those.  I  have  no  idea. So  Sure.  Speak  germ. I  Bian  Deutsch.  Coz? Yeah. Okay.  Super.  Where  in  the  US?  Were  you  born? So  like  really  close.  Interesting.  Yeah. Okay.  Yeah.  But  in Switzerland  they  speak  Sitz  Duchsch, so  it's  a  very  different  language. But  we're  supposed  to  learn  Hoech. So  both  of  your  parents are  German  or  just  one. Super.  That's  awesome. Okay.  All  right. Um  Okay. Zopa.  Alright.  We  are  starting  with entropy  analysis.  All  right. Usually  at  this  point  of  the  teaching, it's  the  few  the  proud. Who  come,  right, especially  on  a  Friday  like  this. So  today,  we're  going  to  continue,  as  I  said, into  Module  two,  which  is these  are  things  that  are  not  on  the  exam. Right?  This  is  going  to  be  on  the  mid  term two  into  entropy  analysis. I'm  just  going  to  run  through. After  today,  we're  going  to  talk a  little  bit  about  it looks  like  some  compressors. We're  going  to  look  at  an interesting  strategy  for  being able  to  run  compressors  more  efficiently. And  then  we're  going  to  do some  entropy  analysis  there. Before  that,  because  I bored  you  with  so  much  math, I  thought  I'd  reward  you  with  some  work. So  let's  look  at  this  problem. Alright?  So  you're  given a  system  or  a  process  here  of  12, three,  easy  as  123. You  start  off  at this  temperature  and  entropy, you  go  to  this  temperature and  this  entropy  here, and  ultimately  up  to  this. And  my  question  is,  for  this  process, tell  me  what  is the  total  heat  transfer  for this  reversible  process,  right? Is  that  clear?  Alright, I'm  going  to  launch  the  pull  in. And  then  I'll  show  the  slides. Let  me  launch  the  pole, and  then  I'll  show  the  moment  here. Wait,  wait,  wait. It's  activated.  There  you go.  And  I'll  circulate. Great. Is  it  working? My  favorite  group  in  the  front  here? Super.  Is  working  for  you? Great. Oh,  let  me  know. I  wouldn't  have  been  what  Chicago? Yeah,  yeah,  you  know,  I,  I  didn't  win. Yeah. All  of  that. Yeah.  Sorry. Yes.  Yes.  Yeah.  Okay. All  good  here.  All  good. All  right.  Q,  here. It's. Alright.  See  where  we're  at. Oh. Okay.  Wait,  I  didn't  want  to  do  that. Wait.  The  hell. This Okay. I  don't  know.  It's  not  showing  me  the  number. But  ok. 350?  400. So  I'll  mark  on  the  ones  that  get  over  10%. So  we  have  it  50  100. And  350. Okay,  so  I  see  sort of  those  kind  of  three  ranges. So  if  we  start  for  this  one, so  anyone  who's  from the  group  of  50  or close  to  50  care  to  share their  work  approach  here? Sure.  You're  in  two  groups. Okay,  cool.  All  right. You  don't  get  two  answers  though. So  we'll  start  with  50. Okay. Okay. Now  I  have  to call  te  me  what  was  your  50  thinking. Yeah.  Which  is  why initially,  we  would  have  gotten  15. But  then pure  Okay. Did  anyone  else  have  a  di  problem solving  approach  there? Yes,  please. Like  this? Yes.  Okay.  So  are  a  big  triangle  and the  the  line  of  no  doesn't  for  that  Mm  hm. Okay.  O  solving  approaches. How  about  100?  Did  anyone have  100  or  care  to  share? I  think  that  was  close, but  is  the  group that  rounded  up  to  100  somebody  who  got, was  following basically  this  approach  and  rounded  up? Yes,  please.  Say  a  one  more  time. T  bar.  Same  as  100. Yeah,  so  this  same  but  got  100.  Okay. All  right.  Yes,  this  is  all  very  good. So  yeah,  again,  we're talking  not  about  work  though,  right? We're  talking  about  heat. We're  talking  about  heat  transfer  here. So  I  think  starting  with  his  name. Joe.  Starting  with  the  approach, here  that  Alsipedra  said, you  know,  verbally  that  essentially, you're  looking  at your  relationships  between  this. Obviously,  to  make  it  into  heat, we  have  to  put  the  the  t  onto  this  side, so  that's  my  bad  there. You  do  know  the  relationship  though between  T  and  S,  right? That's  knowable.  So,  again, this  is  nothing  but,  you  know, illustrating  what  is  visual, which  is  the  area  under  the  curve. The  process  23  doesn't have  any  area  under  the  curve. There's  no  change  of  entropy  with  it. And  then,  51  100  will  get you  right  if  you  do  it  in  degrees  Celsius. But  the  point  is  that  when  you deal  with  this  temperature  here, this  is  in  the  absolute  scale,  right? This  is  in  SI,  that's  Kalvin. Just  to  remind  you  A  easy  check is  If  you  put  zero  degrees  Celsius, you  know,  into  this,  but  still  have a  change  of  entropy  there, which  could  happen  whenever  ice  melts? You  know,  you  could  be  having  heat, you  know,  going  in? That  would  give  you  no  heat  transfer, which  is  wrong,  right? So  you  need  to  remember  to  work  here with  the  absolute  scale. But  the  thinking  is  totally  right, you  know,  so  it's  just  off with  the  temperature  scale. Alright? Are  there  any  comments  about  that?  Questions? Yes,  please.  Temperature. No,  this  is  a  good  question. I  can't  emphasize  this  enough. It's  not  one  number.  And  maybe I  want  to  ask  it  to  the  audience. Why  wouldn't  it  be  one  number here?  Sure.  In  the  front. It's  constantly  changing. At  each  level,  right? Each  little  DS  that  you  do, your  T  is  changing  here,  right? So  every  little  DS  that  you  do, like  if  we  do  the  rem,  right? Remit  integration  there, each  little,  you  know, box  you  draw  is  going  to  be at  a  different  T.  And so  just  like  when  we  did  with  PDV, we  integrated  PDV,  we  need  to  know the  relationship  between  V  and  P,  right? To  get  it  right. Here,  it  would  be  the  same,  right? You'd  substitute  some  version  of  T  here. For  S,  right?  So  T is  then,  you  know,  your  y  variable. You're  going  to  then  put  in  the  S  there. You'll  put  that  in,  and  then  you  would integrate  and  then  do  a  substitution. You  do  the  mathematically,  or you  could  simply  observe,  you  know, visually  that  that's  nothing  but the  area  underneath  this, you  know,  polygon  or  whatever  there. Yes,  please. Joe. No,  I  can't emphasize  this  enough,  right? So  when  we  are  talking  about,  you  know, this  T  here,  this is  absolute  temperature.  Right? I'll  give  it  to  you  another  way,  right? The  second  law  right  is  telling  you that  energy  has  equality  to  it. Right?  How  do  we  rank  the  quality  of  heat? We  take  the  heat  there  and we  divide  it  by  T.  Alright? So  right, that's  kind  of  a  ranking  system  with  it. So  when  we're  transferring  heat  with  really, really  high  temperatures,  we  have very  little  change  in  entropy  associated. That's  good.  That's  a  good  thing. Name.  So  Say  it  again. Name  first?  Austin  Austin. Okay.  Is  process  by  definition  has  no. So  you  can  be  internally  reversible, but  you  can  still transfer  heat  into  it,  right? So  I  can  have  a  process  that's internally  reversible. So  meaning  like all  the  mechanics  and  everything within  there  doesn't  have friction  and  all  of  that. But  if  I  need  to transfer  heat  in  to  get  work  out  of  it, you're  definitely  going  to have  a  change  in  entropy. So  let's  think  about  the  carno  cycle. The  carnal  cycle,  when  we  looked  at  that, the  TS  diagram  that we  had,  what  did  it  look  like? The  TS  diagram,  a  Carnous  I  don't  remember. So  PV,  yes.  So  PV,  right? That's  the  PV.  Okay.  But  I'm  asking, again,  today's  like  shaped  day. So  geometrically,  what  does  TS  diagram look  like  for  Carno?  I  square. Yes.  All  right.  So  there,  right, when  we're  doing  our  work  transfer  processes, you  know,  those  are straight  up  and  down,  right? Those  are  straight  up  and  down. But  when  we  do our  heat  transfer  processes  there. It's a  constant  temperature  from  our  reservoirs, but  we  have  the  big  changes  in  entropy. But  the  key  thing  is  that  when we  run  that  as  a  cycle, you  know,  in  total,  right, we're  always  coming  back  to  where  we  start. But  the  actual  machines that  we're  working  with themselves  are  reversible  and are  not  themselves  generating  entropy. But  that's  a  good  question. Okay.  Other  questions?  Yes,  Nma Yeah. I  mean,  you  could  do  that. You  could  do  it  like  man, or  we  can  do  it  like  integration. What  you  need  to  define  then is  t  as  a  function  of  S,  right? So  you  need  to  have  some  version of  the  S.  Right?  What  is  it? It's  going  to  be  constant  here  p  right, B  plus  M  S,  right? This  is  then  probably  the  slope is  probably  a  negative  there. And  so  you  would  put  that then  as  a  substitution into  here  and  you  would  integrate or  something  like  that,  right? Okay. But  no,  don't  go  like every  little  one  here, you  can  just  look  and  observe. Alright?  Cool.  And  this  is  more  for, like,  intuitive  understanding, et  a  feeling  then,  like, what  is,  you  know, what  does  a  heat  transfer  process  look like  on  a  TS  diagram? That's  what  it  looks  like. Right  in  Carno  when  we  do the  transfer  from  the  low  temperature  source, it  looks  like  this,  right? When  we  do  the  transfer  from the  high  temperature  source. Right?  It  looks  like  this. Right?  All  the  way  up  to there,  right?  Yes,  please. It's  the  entire  area underneath  the  one  to  two  line. Minus  zero.  Here's  what  I'm  going  to  say. You  all  your  homework  assignments. Give  me  a  formula  is  t  as  a  function  of S  and  integrate  that  from  0.02  to  one, and  tell  me  if  that  is  the  triangle. That's  a  challenge.  Alright. Hot  any  other  questions.  Good. Alright,  so  now  to  the  next  part, 'cause  we're  now  at  a  stage where  we've  done  a  lot of  control  volume  analysis. So  just  to  refresh  our  memories  with  this. It's  very  important  to  distinguish between  systems, what  I  would  call  is  closed, closed  in  the  sense  that  we  can't  transfer mass  in  and  out  of  them, and  systems  that  are  open,  right? So,  right,  with  our  closed  systems, the  mechanisms  of  energy  transfer  that we  have  are  work  in  heat,  right? Ha  heat  transfer  is. Heat  transfer,  work  in these  cases  can  be  electrical  work,  right? A  pass  electricity  through  a  wire, which  then  itself  generates heat  and  adds  it,  or, you  know,  we  can  compress  or  expand the  pistem  to  transfer  in  or transfer  out  work,  right? And  when  you  think  about your  energy  equations  there,  right? In  that  case,  you  know,  we're  saying, okay,  there's  the  Delta  E  of  the  CV, right,  which  is  equal  to, you  know,  what  you  add  in,  right? QN?  This  is  terrible  markers. Just  a  QN  plus  your  WN  minus, your  Q  plus  your  W  out.  All  right? And  what's  the  left  hand  side, the  left  hand  side, is  your  Delta  U  plus your  Delta  P  E  plus  your  Delta  KE,  right? And  this  is  not  zero,  right? This  is  not  zero,  right? What  this  is  is  a  lot  of  times  we'll get  rid  of  potential  and  kinetic.  All  right. And  then  we're  looking  at,  am  I  putting  heat in  not.  Am  I  putting  work  in? Am  I  putting  heat  out  or  work  out? And  so  this  is  only  ever  zero,  right? When  this  is  equal  to  this. When  income  equals  expenses, right,  that  is  zero. And  that  is  closed,  right? So  mentally  and  thermodynamics classify  closed  and  open. So  that's  closed.  And  that's  here  you  know, the  problem  solving  strategy. You  should  start  with drawing  your  control  volumes, writing  this  formula  and  deciding  what  terms stay  in,  what  terms  go? Yes,  please. There's  no  boundary  work,  right? But  you  can  still transfer  work  electrically,  right? So  if  you  see  a  wire  there, I  can  still  transfer  work in  in  in  electrically. You're  not  going  to  be  able  to  transfer  work out  electrically. But  yes,  if  it's  a  constant  volume, you're  not  going  to  have  boundary  work, so  let's  say  a  PDV  type of  equation,  the  DV  is  zero. There's  no  work  there.  Yeah.  Okay.  Now,  then you  have  the  open  systems,  right? And  in  the  open  systems, you  have  a  different  approach. Alright.  Well,  there's  my  black  marker. Alright.  So,  in  your  open  systems,  right, you  draw  You  know, let's  say  we  draw  our  control  volume, we  got  our  pipe. Here's  our  control  volume, here's  some  element  that  we're  looking  at. This  is,  by  definition, always  constant  volume,  right? Unlike  the  other  case where  the  volumes  could  move, when  we  analyze  these  systems, the  control  volume,  it  doesn't  change. And  in  addition  to  heat  and  work, which  can  be  transferred  in, you  can  also  bring  in  mass. And  mass  also  can  carry  energy. It  can  be  hot,  right? It  can  have  a  high  pressure. It  can  be  coming  from  a  high  height,  right, potential  energy,  things  like  that. So,  naturally,  because  we  have an  additional  mechanism  of  energy  transfer, the  system  is  going  to  be  more  complicated. The  second  thing  is  that  we usually  deal  with  this  in  rate  format. So  we  talk  about  the  change, the  rate  of  change  of  energy  in that  control  volume  is equal  to  the  rate  that  we  add  in, you  know,  minus,  right, the  rate  that  we  take  out,  right? For  a  lot  of  cases,  not  all, but  for  a  lot  of  cases,  right? We  typically  treat  our  systems  as  steady. And  so  EN  is  what  is  E  out,  right? So  what's  in  WN  Q  dot  plus  m  dot. And  because  it's  steady,  right? Because  DM  CV  dt  is  equal  to  zero. What  this  implies  is  that m.in  is  equal  to  m  dot  out, which  we  generally  write  is  just  m  dot. You  have  m  dot,  enthalp  one. If  this  is  at  state  one, and  this  is  state  two, one  plus  velocity  one  squared, divided  by  two,  gz  one  is  equal  to, W  n  plus  Q  dot  n  plus  m  two, which  is  at  the  exit  enthalpy, W  two  squared  divided  by two  plus  g  z  two,  right? Oh,  yeah,  'cause  I  test  you all  every  day.  This  is  good. You're  automatic. You  should  be  up  here  teaching me,  right?  Out,  right? Exactly.  And  the  reason  why we  deal  with  enthalpies  here  in this  formula  and  not  internal  energy  is because  we  took  the  PV  terms out  of  the  work,  right? So,  here,  you  still  have  you  know, PV  that  can  happen,  right? We  did  the  flow  work. We  talked  about  flow  work. We  extracted  the  flow  work  out  of  the  work, and  we  combined  it  with  the  enthalpies. So  here  when  we  talk  about  work, this  is  shaft  work,  right, shaft  work,  work  in,  work  out,  useful  work. That's  why  we  deal  with  enthalpies automatically  in  this  equation. I  cannot  stress  enough. When  you  first  look  at  your  problems, define  what  I'm  dealing  with. Am  I  dealing  with  an  open  or a  closed  system  and  select the  appropriate  conservation  equations, so  especially  the  energy with  it  to  then  solve. All  right?  Yes,  please. This  is  open. Yes.  Yes.  And  that's also  what  I  show  on  the  right  here,  right? I  have  mass  coming  in. I  have  mask  going  out.  I  got  a  wire  in  there, can  transfer energy  through  work  electrically. You  can  have  heat  that's  coming  out, but  it's  usually  in  a  rate  format,  right? Continuing  to  compare  them,  right? So  if  we  look  at  the  work  transfer  you  know, work  transfer  processes  here. So  this  is  boundary  work,  PDV. Of  course,  we  can  still  have  electrical, as  I  showed  you, but  as  a  general  rule, we're  interested  really  in boundary  work  in  these  systems. Think  about  an  old school  engines,  you  know,  pistons, expanding,  you  know,  compressing  like  that. So  you're  integrating  PDV. Here,  when  you're  looking  at  these  things, you're  dealing  with  a  V  VDP,  right? You're  taking  something  that's  maybe, like,  really, really  at  high  pressure, putting  it  in,  and  then  it's coming  out  at  a  low  pressure. But  there's  no  change  in volume  right  within  the  system,  right? It's  a  constant  constant  volume, isochoric,  right? It's  an  isochoric  system  here, and  then  the  work  that  we talk  about  here  is  then,  you  know, the  shaft  work,  this  useful work  that  comes  out,  right? Cool.  So  in  junior  exams and  you're  looking  at  these  things, you  know,  draw  me  a  diagram. Tell  me  your  governing  equations. Give  rid  of  the  things that  tell  me  assumptions, give  rid  of  the  things  that  you don't  need  based  on  the  assumptions. You  know,  show  me  how  you  think  with  it. Alright.  So  with  that,  I  want  to  move  on. I  want  to  solve  now  again, these  open  systems. I  want  to  move  more  into kind  of  combining  systems. So  here  we're  looking at  three  systems  in  one, so  two  compressors  and  a  heat  exchanger. I'll  get  into  a  second  why  one  would care  Why  one  would  care about  that.  Bless  you. All  right. Actually,  I  don't  want  to  start  like  that. Maybe  I'll  erase  this  one  to  start. Alright. Alright.  Time  is it?  Okay  25. All  right.  So  in,  I  in  this  system  here, we're  we're  told  that  we  have  a  compressor. We're  bringing  in  air,  basically  air at  room  temperature  and  atmospheric  pressure, bringing  it  in,  compressing  it. And  then  at the  second  stage  compressing  it  again, and  ultimately  exiting  at  this  much  higher, you  know,  six  time  higher  pressure  here. To  achieve  that,  we  have a  work  transfer  that's  that's  being  done. And  we're  not  told  why. But  the  stage  in  between the  first  compressor  and  the  next  compressor, we  transfer  heat  transfer  heat out  of  it,  right? You're  also  shown  the fact  here  on  this  diagram, is  a  TS  diagram  that  you're starting  initially  here  with  this  problem. You  basically  isenttropically  compress, you're  transferring  work  in to  that  with  a  reversible  compressor. And  then  you  transfer  the  heat  out  like  that. And  then  You  basically  compress. You  basically  compress  again  there. This  detail  and  going  down  to this  temperature,  you're  also  told  this. So  basically  the  air  before entering  the  second  stage  is  at 27  27  degrees  Celsius. The  second  line  that  you  see  in the  blue  line  is  if you  were  going  to  do  the  same  thing, but  with  a  single  stage compressor  with  that  heat  transfer. So  here  you  start  at  this  stage. You  compress  at  the  same  pressure, but  you  end  up  at the  different  temperature  there,  okay? Yes,  please.  Lo. I  believe  that  that  is  that  should  be a  line  of  constant  pressure here,  if  I  remember  right. But  that's  a  good  question. I  could  look  at  my  code  and  see. Yeah. Alright.  I  think  that  was  more  for  me  to know  that  in  both  cases  that  I  was  actually finishing  at  the  same  final  pressure  there. So  when  I  was  double  checking  myself. Other  questions?  Good.  Alright.  Let's  go. Alright.  So  the  other  details that  are  given  is  that  the  mass  flow  rate. So  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the Of  the  air.  So  dot  of  the  air. Maybe  I'll  just  call  it  dot  for  now, M  dot  is  equal  to  0.15  kilograms/second. As  we  said  before,  we  know  that P  one  is  equal  to  100  KPA. We  know  that  T  one  is  equal to  27  degrees  Celsius. The  other  detail  that  we're told  in  this  problem  is  that the  pressure  ratio  between the  first  and the  second  stage  compression  there, so  our  pressure  ratio  is  2.5. So  it  means  we  compress  2.5  first  and  then 2.5  again  in  order  to  go  100-625. So  what  does  that  look  like? Mathematically?  Mathematically,  that looks  like  P  two  is equal  to  P  one  times  2.5,  and  P  three. What  I'm  calling  as  the  exiting  stage there  is  equal  to  P  two  times  22.5,  right? Mmm. Or  actually,  I  want to  be  more  precise  with  this. I  want  to  say  that  on  this  diagram  here, that  this  is  one,  two,  three,  and  four. So  in  this  case,  this  would  then be  P  two  is  P  one  times  2.5, and  then  P  four  is  P  three  times  2.5,  right? Good. Two  to  two.  Yeah.  And  so  since we're  given  the  P  one  here,  we  know  P  two. And  since  we're  given the  And  P  two is  basically  P  three is  essentially  equal  to  P  two, so  we  know  that,  and  we  know  that. Since  we  know  the  temperatures  entering, right? So  state  one,  since we  know  the  temperature  at  state  three, we  know  a  bunch  of  these  properties. So  let's  break  it  down,  right? So  for  state  one,  we  know T  and  we  know  P  check, With  this,  what  we're  able  to  determine is  S  one  for  stage  two. So  this  is  an  n  and  tropic  compressor. So  the  first  thing  is  S two  is  equal  to  S  one, and  we  know  that  pressure  P  two  here. So  we  know  everything  from  these  two  states, for  State  three, we  know  the  temperature  there. So  we  know  T  three, and  we  know  P  three,  P  three  here, and  T  three  is  given  as  27  degrees  Celsius. So  we  have  everything  here. And  what  we  get  out  of  that  is  then S  three,  right,  the  entropy  there. And  then  for  state  four. Again,  we  do  the  compression. We  assume  that  the  entropy  exiting the  compressor  at  S  four  is  equal  to  S  three, and  we're  also  told the  pressure  at  state  four. So  we  have  that.  So  we  know all  the  properties  before and  after  each  stage. So  compression,  he  transfer and  compression  again. So  we  know  everything  and  we  can start  to  start  solving  this. Mmm. All  right.  And  more  specifically, what  I  want  to  say  here  is  that, what  you  know,  as  well, right,  is  your  your  entropies,  H  one, h2h3  and  H  four,  right? Alright.  So  then,  um Yeah. So  if  we  if  we're  looking now  and  focusing  on  the  green  lines. Let's  solve  with  the  green  line  first. So  with  this,  again, we  have  the  two  stage. So  for  the  compressors,  if  you  recall,  right? This  is  going  to  be  our  control  volume  here. We  have  it's  steady,  right? So  d  dt  is  zero, that  means  that  the  m  dot  is m  is  equal  to  m  dot. It  also  means  that  the  change in  the  energy  of that  control  volume  e  dot  minus  et,  right? This  is  there,  so  then these  things  are  in  balance. We're  not  doing  any  heat  transfer  here. All  we're  doing  is  basically  work  transfer. So  if  you  were  to  represent then  the  energy  balance  here. So  our  w  n  plus  Q  dot  n  plus  m  dot. Again,  I'm  going  with  just  m  dot  because  it's steady  one  plus  W  one squared  two  G  one  is  equal  to  w plus  plus  two  plus W  two  squared  b  two  plus  g  z  two,  right? And  what  goes  away? Is  that  we  have  work  transfer  in. We  don't  have  heat  transfer  in  or collecting  kinetic  and  potential  energies. We  don't  have  work  transfer out  or  heat  transfer  out. And  so  what  this  looks  like  in  the  end,  then, if  we  rearrange  is  that  the  w.in  for a  compressor  is  equal  to m.h2  minus  H  one,  right? And  so,  as  I  mentioned  before, so  we'll  call  this  compressor  12. We  know  M  dot,  right  that  was  given. We  know  H  two  from  the  property  tables, and  we  know  H  one. So  we've  got  this,  right? The  value  that  I  have  here is  so  that's  basically  for  the  first  part. For  the  second  part,  which I  would  like  now  my  other  board. Right. Lo  going  in  to  the  second  compressor. Which  is  going  to  be roughly  the  same  formula, but  we're  going  to  swap  two  for four  and  one  for  three. So  then  the  W  dot  from  do  I  read  it? 12,  so  this  will  be  34  is  equal  to m.h4  minus  H  three. And  again,  you  know,  we  know  H  four  from the  property  tables,  we  know  H  three. And  so  then  our  W  total  you  know, is  then  going  to  be  this  Wt  12  plus  this  w34. And  what  I  have  here  is that  this  total  amount  then  is  then 27  point  1  kilowatt  there,  right? If  you  have  questions  about  the property  tables  in  the  lookup, you  can  launch  that  code there  and  show  you  then  what the  electronic  tables  look  like  for  air. The  syntax  is  slightly  different  from  water. But  it  can  handle  the  cool  part  about  it  is that  this  electronic  tables can  handle  not  only  air, but  also  things  like  refrigerants, which  we'll  be  using. Are  there  questions?  Yes,  please. Check  mark  means,  I  know. So  the  check  mark  for  me  here  means  is,  like, if  I  know  you  know, if  I  have  sufficient  information  about the  thermodynamic  properties  to know  everything  else  at  that  state. So  for  the  air  here, which  we're  dealing  with  with  the  air,  right? I  know  the  temperature  and the  pressure  at  the  inlet. That's  it.  I  know  everything,  right? I  can  go  in  and  with  tables, look  up  entropy,  look  up  enthalpy, look  up  specific  heats, you  know,  internal  energies, all  of  it.  It's  always  like  this. Except  for  phase  change reasons  where  you  have  to  be  careful, and  there  you  have  to  think  about specific  volume  or,  you  know, temperature  and  specific  volume, pressure,  specific  volume, enthalpy,  and  pressure,  things  like  that. Yes,  please.  Yeah,  for those  two  pieces  of  the  compressor. So  we  have  like a  work  transfer  that's  going  in. So,  I  analyze  them  separately. And  so  I'm  saying,  so  how  much  work am  I  transferring  into  this compressor  of  my  total  work, how  much  am  I transferring  in  for  the  other  one? And  the  total  W  dot  that's  there that  I  have  in the  diagram  is  the  summation  of  the  two. Good  question.  It's  like a  half  raised  hand.  What  is  that? It  is  or  it  isn't. Lile  louder.  One  more  time? Ion.  There  is  no  W.  There's  only  in. Right?  So  this  is  a  compressor. So  you  see  there  that  they're both  rotating  in  the  same  direction, those  shafts. And  what's  being  indicated  here  is  that that  shaft  is  driving  both  compressors. Okay.  Sorry  the  pressure  ratio. It  was.  It  was  here. This  is  a  problem  I  had  pulled  from  the  book, but  I  think  from the  homework  part  of  the  book. But  they  say  that  there's this  pressure  ratio  that occurs  between  each  stage  of  the  compressor. Compressor  compressor  there,  and  it's  2.5. So  both  of  them  do  that. I'm  not  a  compressor  guy,  but  I'm assuming  maybe  that's  something  that's also  given  for  most  compressors is  that  ratio.  Could  be. The  pressure  ratio  It  means  this.  Okay. Yeah.  So  what  I  want  to  say  here, maybe  just  to  be  complete or  consistent  with  that. So  the  W  dot  that's  on the  diagram  there  that  you  see  is equal  to  the  work  that's  transferred  into the  first  stage  compressor  plus the  work  transferred  into  the  second  stage. And  so  this  is  the  total  W  dot  there. So  w34  is  the  work transferred  into  the  second  stage  compressor. So  if  I  call  state  three entering  the  second  stage and  state  four  after  it, then  the  M  four  minus  H three  is  then  going  to be  the  work  transferred into  the  second  stage  of  the  compressor. Okay. Cool.  So  now  we  can  look  at what  would  happen  if  you  did  single  stage. That's  interesting.  So  if  we  looked  at, what's  going  to  be  the  best  way  to  do  this? Maybe  this  one  I  hide  this  one  I  bring  back. Alright.  Um  A,  let  me  ask  it  this  way. So  there  I  told  you  how  I arrived  from  the  properties  there. So  if  we  do  a  single  stage  compression and  I  tell  you  the inlet  temperature  and  pressure, and  I  tell  you  only  the  exit  pressure. So  imagine  that  it's just  one  single  compressor. You  have  this  inlet  conditions and  that  single  outlet  condition. What  is  the  other  piece of  information  that  you  know if  I  tell  you  that  it's  reversible? Yes,  please. I  heard  entropy. So  what  do  you  know  about  entropy? So  S  one  would  then be  the  entropy  at the  inlet  is  equal  to the  entropy  at  the  exit. Exactly.  So  here,  if  we  go a  single  stage,  we'll  get  to  the  work  part. The  work  part  we're  going  to  do  next,  okay? I  didn't  mean  to  cut  you  off  with  that. All  right.  Single  stage  there. So  our  inlet  is  again, that  P  one,  which  is  100  KPA. Alright?  That  T  one, which  is  27  degree  Celsius,  O  state  two. And  from  this,  Right?  We  know  everything. So  we  know  the  hop  at  state  one. We  also  know  the  entropy  at  state  one. Perhaps  just  to  be  consistent with  my  notation  before, we  can  say  that  we  know  that  that pressure  at  state  four  or the  exit  is  equal  to  625  KPA, and  that  this  entropy  at  state four  is  equal  to  the  entropy at  state  one,  right? Which,  again,  is  consistent  with what  I've  shown  you  on  the  diagram  here. So  this  entropy  and  that entropy  are  the  same. And  then  out  of  this, the  variable  that  we're  interested  in  what we  can  look  up  in  the  electronic tables  or  the  real  tables, is  that  we  know  that  enthalpy  there. And  if  we  come  back  to maybe  it's  also interesting  to  juxtapose  here. So  then  our  w.in  this  in  this  case, is  equal  to  the  m  dot  times that  H  four  minus  that  H  one  there. Alright?  And  the  values and  the  value  that  you  would  get if  you  substituted  that  all  in. I  show  as  31  point  1  kilowatt,  right? Which  is  obviously  greater than  the  27.1  there. Yes,  please,  Amelia. Oh,  so,  yeah,  yeah, so  there's  keywords  for  this. So  keywords  are  things like  this  is  a  reversible,  like, a  reversible  compressor,  or  sometimes, I  think,  to  your  point, maybe  internally  reversible,  right? This  is  like  code  four, I  don't  have  friction,  right? This  is  perfectly  efficient. I  might  have  to  put  heat  into it,  right  to  maybe  make  it  run, but  internally  I'm  not  going  to  have any  losses  as  a  result  of  it. And  therefore,  if  it's  strictly a  work  transfer  process,  that's  isotropic. So  there's  gonna  be  no  change in  entropy  there. Again,  the  best  example  I  think  of  is, like,  think  about  the  carno  cycle. Maybe  I  got  a  pump,  and  I've got  an  engine  that  I'm  driving. I'm  putting  work  into  the  pump. That  tribute  doesn't  change. That's  a  straight  up  and  down  line. And  then  maybe  my  engine,  you  know, I'm  getting  a  big  work  transfer  out, that's  also  going  to  be  a  big  straight up  and  down  line  there. Other  questions. No.  That  simple  three  pieces  in  series. With  entropy.  You  are  definitely ready  to  go  for  mid  term  one. Midterm  one  doesn't  have  entropy,  by  the  way. Yes.  Say  one  more  time. Yeah.  Exactly.  What's  going  on  with  it? What  do  you  see?  So  this  is the  case  where  we  don't  cool  it. We  don't  do  the  intercoling between  the  compressing  stages, and  here  you  do. What's  the  difference  that  you  see  in the  work  transfer  needed? Yeah. It's  the  other  way  around.  This  is what  you  pay  for,  right? This  is  PG  and  E,  right? This  is  what  they  charge  you obscene  amounts  of  money  to  run  with. Okay?  And  this. So  if  you  go  to  your  boss, and  you  say,  Look,  you  know, if  this  compression  system, Atab  Hall  has  got  a  big air  compressor  and  all  of  that, and  said,  Look,  I  can  make  your  process, you  know,  I  don't  know. 10%  more  efficient  by  simply,  you  know, using  some  waste  heat  cooling or  some  maybe  cooling  that's  lying  around. 10%  is  not  nothing. 10%  might  get  you  a  big  fat  raise, you  know, whatever  you're  doing  there,  alright? So  that's  all  it  is.  So  basically, you're  doing  this  intercoling  stage because  at  the  end  of  it, you're  going  to  be  able  to  need  less  work to  achieve  the  same  final  result. Also,  when  I  was  analyzing  this  thing, I  was  looking  into  you  know, potentially  using  water as  like  a  refrigerant, you  know,  there,  'cause,  why don't  use  water  as  a  working  fluid. Part  of  the  problem  is  that  if  you  wanted to  do  a  single  stage  compression, there,  you  take  it  up  to  ridiculously high  temperatures  to  get  a  work. However,  if  one  thought about  maybe  a  system  like  this, I  think  it's  potentially conceivable  that  it  could  work. So  one  of  the  thermoyamic projects  if  someone's  interested  in discussing  more  about  that  is  to  think  about the  most  natural  refrigerant  of all  water  and  seeing  if  that  could  be  used, for  example,  in  like heat  pump  technology  there,  okay? Yes. So  in  this  case, it's  embedded  with  the  entering  temperature, right? So  basically,  you  have something  here,  you  compress  it. You're  going  to  bring  that up  to  some  temperature, and  then  you  cool  it down  to  this  other  temperature, and  then  you  move  up. So  in  reality,  then  what  you would  see  here  is  some  version  of, you  know,  the  area  under this  curve,  I  suppose. If  cooling  was  done  in this  sort  of  linear  way, that  would  then  be  the  heat  part  of  it. Alternatively, you  have  the  enthalpies,  right? You  could  go  with  the  enthalpy of  state  three  here. You  know  the  enthalpy  at  state  two. You  can  take  the  difference,  take  the  M  dot, and  you  would  know  then  the  Q the  Q  out  there.  Just  didn't  analyze  it. We  did  not  need  to  analyze the  heat  out  to  be  able to  solve  this  problem. So  but  it  is a  good  question.  Sam,  right?  Yeah. This  is  a  good  question. But  unfortunately,  it's  this  kind  of  thing where  I  give  you  all  the  information  here, and  my  request  is  sleep  on  it. Let  it  sit  with  you  a  little  bit. But  the  most  intuitive  thing is  you  don't  have  to single  stage  and  make  it  500  Kelvin. I  mean,  if  you  go  in  and you  try  to  get  this  pressure, you  have  to  heat  a  lot. Alright? And  so  that  might  tell  you  already  that, doing  work  against  something  that's  really hot  probably  is  harder,  right? And  so  by  cooling  it, it's  easier  then  to  compress it  after  I've  cooled  it  a  bit. Yeah.  But  I  would  say, come  back  to  me  on  Monday  or  whatever, and  I'm  happy  to  keep on  plugging  away,  right? No.  You  need  to  read  the  CBT  F  website. They  have  all  that  stuff, you  know,  there.  It's  all  listed. There's  a  whole  section  for  students  there that  you  can  look  at  for  that,  okay?  Yeah. I  have  no  ad  discussion. Yes.  Isn't  that  beautiful? Well,  yeah,  if  you  start to  get  into  the  whole  system, we  put  all  the  elements  together, it  might  be  difficult,  but  we  break  it  down. I  got  this  element  analyze here,  control  volume. That  element  analyzed  there. So  we  break  it  down  into these,  like,  manageable  chunks, and  everything  at  the  end  is Delta  H.  It's  so  great. You're  gonna  see  a  power  plant. It's  gonna  be  like,  This  is  a  joke. Like  how  easy?  Everyone  complains about  thermal.  You  know? Okay.  Are  there  any  other  questions? We  have  a  few  minutes  Alright, you're  rocking  and  rolling. I'm  very  happy,  good  attendance.  Good  energy. Have  a  good  weekend.  See  you  all  at 6:00  A.M.  Game  Day. On  in  front  of  Doll  library. I'll  be  there  with  my  3-year-old  son Rep  so  Okay. Be  safe,  everyone. Have  a  good  Have  a  good  weekend. There  you  go.  Your  3-year-old  son  up  at  six.
