Yeah. I  Thank  you. I All  right,  I  got  210. So  today  we're  talking about  energy.  All  right. So  cycles,  internal  energy, heat  and  energy  transfer by  heat  and  work  and  work  transfer  processes. So  where  we  left  off  last  time, we're  talking  about  states. If  we  connect  states together,  we  can  make  a  process. If  we  string  them  all together  and  make  it  into  a  loop,  right? We  call  that  essentially a  a  cycle,  all  right? And  that's  really  what mechanical  engineers  are, like,  chiefly  concerned  with,  right? So  taking  heat  into  work, working  into  heat  and  like  that. Yeah,  and  if  you  want  to  see  this  cycle  here, most  of  my  lecture  slides  from  here  on  out, I'll  have  my  notes  and  worked  out  as examples  available  through  the  data  hub. So  if  you  click  that  link,  it'll pull  up  a  Jupyter  notebook. It  has  usually  my  notes and  then  also  calculations, and  you  can  recreate  plots  like  that. All  right?  This  one  just happens  to  be  an  important  one, especially  for  aerospace  engineers. So  this  is  pretty  much  the  basis of  jet  propulsion, but  also  how  we  make  for mechanical  engineers, how  we  make  electricity from,  like,  natural  gas. So  how  this  comes  in  and produces  power  there.  Okay?  Good. And  then  this  also  gives an  introduction  to  some of  how  we  compute  the  properties. So  you  may  or  may  not  know, but  the  old  school  way  of  taking  things  like temperature  and  pressure  and  computing internal  energy  and  the other  properties  involve  tables. If  you  want  to  see  these,  each  of the  homework  problems  has  a  PDF, you  can  click  on  it. I  think  there's  no  less  than  17  of  them. There's  the  SI,  there's then  the  imperial  units. It's  a  lot.  When  I was  taught  and  raised  my old  man  is  a  carpenter, so  he  taught  me  to  use  the  hand tool  before  the  power  tool. The  hand  tool  in this  case  is  the  paper  tables. I  encourage  you  to  have  a  look. See  what  that's  like,  and then  probably  the  next  from  there, at  that  point,  that  state  onwards, your  future  processes  will involve  no  paper  and essentially  what  I  would  call like  a  thermodynamic  calculator, in  this  case,  Pi  Killor and  really  grateful  to  Professor  Frank  Locke, who's  taught  this  course  for  many  years, who  took  all  of  his  knowledge  that  he  had  in MAT  lab  and  put  this  into  the  Python. So  you're  the  first  ones  to  benefit from  a  you  know, him  being  a  nice  guy  in  doing  that. So  if  you  click  through  that, you  should  be  able  to  see  kind of  the  basics  of  it. And  then  this  week in  the  discussion  sections, the  GSI  should  also be  taking  you  through  how  to do  property  calculations  with  electronically. Alright?  As  Clar. Cool.  That's  one  thing. The  second  thing  I  want  to  say, this  has  come  up  in the  homework  problems  in that  is  it's  very  important. So  if  we  do  all  the  homeworks online  and  all  that,  it's  like,  great, but  it's  still  very  important  for  you, to  be  able  to  explain  your  logic,  right? So  how  do  I  want  to  see  that,  right? First,  whenever  you  do  this, you're  going  to  take  notes,  right? You're  going  to  write  a  problem  statement. The  first  thing  you're  going  to  do after  that  is  to  draw  schematic,  right? You're  going  to  draw  your  schematic. You're  going  to  show  me  boundaries,  right? That's  what  we  learned  from the  first  part  is  going  to  draw. Tell  me  what  you're  assuming ideal  gas  behavior,  so  on  and  so  forth. Any  physical  laws,  conservation  of  energy. So  the  first  law  of  thermo. Calculate  your  properties,  right? So  that  might  be  Pike  here, you  know,  calculations  and  reasoning,  okay? And  when  I  grade  something  and  I  still  grade, like  a  bunch  of  your  problems on  your  quizzes  and  your  finals, because  I  want  to  see  if  you  really know,  you  might  get  like, if  a  problem  is  15  points, I  might  give  you one  point  for  a  right  answer. And  the  other  14  are  how  you  think,  okay? It  works  the  other  way  too. You  might  give  me  a  wrong  answer,  but if  you  look  like  you  can string  processes  together  and you  have  the  right  thinking, I  grade  that,  okay? So  if  you  ask  yourself, why  in  my  homework,  am  I writing  out  my  work  on  the  PDF? Because  the  whole  point  of the  homework  is  to  get  you in  game  shape  for an  assessment  and  for  a  quiz. So  it's  practice,  right? And  how  you  do  that on  the  homework  is  going  to be  a  one  to  one  for  how  quizzes  do,  right? We're  going  to  run  this through  Pie  Learn,  right? You're  going  to  show  your  work  on  paper that's  going  to  be  in  front  of  you,  right? It's  going  to  be  like  that,  all  right? Cool.  Also,  our  accreditation  depends  on  it. Okay,  um,  which  just got  extended  for  60  years,  I  was  told  today. It  was  wonderful. Okay,  so  that's  a  bit  about  that. Now,  back  into  the  whole  part about  internal  energy. Remember  before  we  talked  about energy  can  come  in  many  forms,  right? Actually,  it's  one  of  the  things that  we  still  don't  know. There's  a  great,  like,  quote from  Richard  Feynman  about  that, but  it's  like  a  weird  thing  where, right,  it  doesn't  really come  in,  like,  packets. We  only  know  it  from  formula,  right? The  most  common  one  is like  kinetic  energy,  right? One  half  mv  squared, you  know,  like  it's  a  math  thing, and  then  out  of  that  you  get  energy. It's  kind  of,  you  know,  it's  not like  you  go  and  you  weigh  it,  right? Um  you're  going  to  have  that, you  have  chemical  energy. So  we  talked  about  inertial, kinetic  energy,  you  know,  nuclear,  right? It's  kind  of  all  over  the  place. So  it's  a  very  seemingly simple  but  actually  very  complicated  subject. So  we  say  in  thermo, all  we  really  want  to  care  about is  really  this  internal  energy. And  that  internal  energy  for a  simple  system  really only  depends  on  something  like, let's  say,  temperature  and  pressure, right,  two  sort  of  properties  there. And  I  didn't  say  too much  about  the  mechanisms. The  closer  we  got  to  the  mechanisms  of  what internal  energy  is  was  these  ideal  gases. So  remember  the  ping  pong balls  or  the  billiards,  right? The  balls  bouncing.  What  type of  energy  did  that  possess? What  type  of  energy  does  an  ideal  gas  store? Say  it  again? Translational. Translational. But  some  molecules  that  are  polyatomic, meaning  they  have  two, not  only  do  they  translate,  but  they  spin. They  can  have  rotational. Some  of  them  can  have  vibrational energy  associated  with  them, and  things  like  electrons can  also  possess  spin  energy. You  start  with  the  ideal  gas, and  the  more  sophisticated  you  get, you  can  have  different  mechanisms  of  storage. But  at  the  end  of  the  day,  Um, you  know,  so  it's  a  molecule  moving. It's,  you  know,  it's vibrating,  right?  It's  rotating. But  all  of  these  can  contribute  as mechanisms  to  the  internal  energy,  okay. Okay.  One  thing,  all  right? And  again,  that's  talking  about  the  state. Now,  you  can  ask  yourselves, so  that  stores  energy, you  know,  via  those  mechanisms. How  does  it  transfer  them? So  how  is  energy  exchange? So  if  something  that's  like  hot,  all  right? Where  does  that  energy  that  I  see,  you  know, in  terms  of  them  moving,  how  does it,  you  know,  transport? It's  a  fair  question. When  we  get  to  the  second  law  in  this  class, what  you're  going  to  recognize  is that  things  that  are  hot,  you  know, things  that  possess  sort  of  a  lot  of thermal  energy  are  going  to  move  from the  regions  of  high  to  low,  all  right? You  take  like  a  balloon, you  got  like  high  pressure  in  it, the  high  concentration  moves from  high  to  low,  all  right? I,  And  then  it'll be  the  same  thing  sort  of  in  the  simulator. So  if  you  go  through  and  you  create  like one  partition  that's,  like,  cold,  right? So  let's  say  they're  moving if  kinetic  energy  is, you  know,  1.5  mv  squared, so  they  have  low  mass  or really  low  velocity, and  then  the  other  one  is,  you  know, maybe  higher  mass  or  really  high  velocity, you  can  go  in  and  look  at  how  it  moves. So,  you  know,  does  the  hot  region  cool? Does  the  colder  one  actually  increase  in temperature  until  they're essentially  at  the  same  temperature,  right? And  at  that  point, you're  at  equilibrium,  right? The  only  equilibrium  you really  learned  until  now  is  what? C  85  who's  taking  C  85. So  what  is  equilibrium  in  C  85? You  know,  sum  of  F  is  equal  to  zero,  right? So  in  thermo,  right,  the  uh, um,  you  know,  we  have  thermal, basically  thermal  equilibrium,  right? Everything  at  the  end  of  it  is  at the  same  temperature. It  means  that  there's  no  longer  heat being  transferred,  right  there. Okay? And  so  you  can  go  on and  look  at  questions  like, what  does  this  basically  you  depend  on? But  for  a  translational  gas, like  I  said,  this  will  depend  on, right,  the  mass  of  your  molecule, the  more  that  you  have, the  more  energy, the  square  of  the  velocity,  right? So  it's  very  sensitive to  that.  The  total  energy. So  the  total  internal  energy here  is  also  going to  depend  on  the  number  of particles  that  you  have, and  the  direction  of  heat,  though. So  what  does  that  depend  on? Yes.  And  anything  else?  You  can  speak  louder. Name  and  Zach. Okay.  So  we  say  it  depends  on  temperature and  the  fact  that  they're  in  contact,  okay? Yeah.  Okay.  Does  it  depend  on  anything  else? Ons. So  the  direction.  So  I  would  say the  internal  energy  definitely  depends on  the  mass  of  it,  but  the  direction. So  the  direction  of  heat  transfer. Would  you  say  that  the  direction  of heat  transfer  depends  on  the  mass? Make  an  argument  for  me. One  has  more  energy  than  the  other.  Yeah. So  it's  an  interesting  concept. It  turns  out  no,  right? So  I  can  have  something  that's  like, think  about  like  an  ice  cube,  right? If  I  take  a  very,  very  tiny, you  know,  ice  cube  and I  put  it  onto  Earth,  right? Very  large  earth  here,  right? You  know,  if  we're  not  in,  you  know, with  the  polar  bears,  well,  let's  say we're  in  sunny  California,  right? Heat  then  from  California  is  going  to  be transferred  into  the  ice  and  melt  it. And  if  I  reverse  it  and  I  say now  that  maybe  I  have  a  really,  you  know, hot  cup  of  water  then there  and  the  surroundings  are  like, um,  you  know,  colder  than  essentially, right,  the  heat  will  flow. So  all  that's  needed, the  take  home  message  here is  it's  just  a  temperature  difference,  okay? When  you  take  M  one  oh  six  or  109, you'll  see  there  that  essentially  it's only  the  temperatures the  gradient  that's  involved,  okay. To  your  point  where you  mentioned  the  fact  that the  containers  have  to  be  in contact.  That's  a  fair  point. Here,  I  obviously  removed  that. If  you  read  your  textbook, sometimes  they  leave, All  these  two  things  in  contact, but  they  don't  let  the  mass  transfer. So  this  is  basically  like a  thermally  conducting  wall,  right? So  you  have  a  thermally  conducting  wall. The  term  for  this  is  called diathermal,  right? So  you'll  see  in  some of  your  homework  problems. So  they  say,  like,  and  two  partitions  are  in contact  via  a  diathermal  wall. That's  what  that  means. Basically,  you  can  transfer  heat  through  it, but  you  cannot  transfer mass  through  it,  okay? Other  questions?  Okay.  And  there is  a  homework  problem  that addresses  Miles'  point  about  the  size. So  it's  a  good  question. Okay,  good. Um,  All  right. So  again,  until  now, we're  considering  systems like  the  one  that  I  just  mentioned, where  all  that  we're exchanging  is  we  have systems  that  are  basically  closed,  all  right? So  what  does  closed  mean? So  closed  in  this  class means  that  I  don't bring  mass  in  or  out,  right? So  if  I  draw  a  box,  right? So  let's  say  this  is  my  um  you  know, I  have  a  piston  cylinder  here, I  have  this  um,  you  know,  box. I  could  go  in  and  draw  my  boundary. So  I  could  go  in  and  draw  and  say,  Okay, this  is  the  boundary of  the  system  that  I  would  like  to  analyze. All  right. So  this  is  a  side  view, a  cross  sectional  view  of  a  cylinder, and  then  a  piston  head,  right? So  it's  just  like  your  bike  pun  from  before, so  it  can  compress  it,  gas. The  gas  can  expand  and transfer  workout,  okay? If  I  look  at  that  system,  so I  don't  bring  mass  in  and  out  of  it. The  only  way,  You  know,  that  in  this  class, we're  going  to  look  at  energy  exchange  is through  or  the  only  way  to  exchange energy  with  a  closed  system  is through  heat  and  work,  okay? All  right?  And  a  common  way we're  going  to  look  at  the  work  part  of  it, especially  with  cylinders  is expansion  and  contraction  processes, all  right? Yeah.  And  if  you want  to  know  it's a  fair  thing  to  ask  yourself, like,  you  know,  sometimes  you might  see  a  system  where,  you  know, we're  doing  work  and  we  bring  in, um,  you  know, like  a  resistor,  you  know, into  this  thing,  and  we  apply, like,  a  potential,  right? We  hook  that  up  to,  like,  a  battery  or something,  and,  you  know, we  apply  a  potential,  and  I  would  ask  you, you  know,  is  that  heat  or  is  it  work,  right? So  if  I  turn  that  on  and I  start  to  transfer energy  into  this  control  volume, I'm  not  transfering  mas, I'm  transferring  energy. You  could  ask  yourself, is  that  a  work  transfer or  heat  transfer  process,  All? And  the  way  to  know  if  it's a  work  or  a  heat  transfer process  is  to  actually  just  ask, is  it  a  heat  transfer  process? All  right?  And  what  did we  already  say  that  you  need  to have  in  order  for  it  to be  a  heat  transfer  process? Say  someone  not  named  Miles  or  your  name? Zach.  Not  Miles  and  not  Zach. So  what  did  we  say  that  we needed  for  a  heat  transfer? Temperature. That's  it. So  if  there's  a  temperature difference,  it's  heat  transfer. If  there's  no  temperature  difference, it  is  not  heat  transfer. This  is  a  closed  system. So  the  only  other  way  to transfer  energy  is  via  what? Work.  Work.  Okay.  So  is this  a  heat  transfer  or a  work  transfer  process?  Work. Oh,  my  gosh.  Crushing  it. This  is  so  great.  I  could  go  home. That's  it,  right?  So  that's the  name  of  the  game  there?  He  did  and  work. You  need  a  Delta  T in  order  for  it  to  be  heat, and  if  it's  not  heat,  then  it's work.  Okay.  In  a  closed  system. All  right.  Okay,  so  Okay. Yeah.  All  right.  And  what's going  to  come  up  a  lot  when  we look  into  engines  and stuff  later  is  we're  going  to  start  to, like,  idealize  some  of  these  processes,  okay? So  again,  we  talked  about  heat as  a  way  to  transfer  energy, and  we  talked  about,  you  know,  work. And,  right,  if  we  think  to  our, like,  first  law,  so  our  first  law,  right, was  the  change  in  internal  energy of  our  system,  right? The  difference  there,  right  is the  difference  in  the  heat transferred  in  minus the  work  transferred  out,  okay? And  there's  like  two  cases,  right? So  what  is  if  I  showed  you  this  formula, um,  You  know,  well, I  guess  I  have  it  on  the  board, so  I'll  just  say  it,  all  right? But  one  case  is  that  we have  no  heat  transferred with  the  control  volume,  okay? We  call  that  adiabatic,  adiabatic,  ar? All  right.  So  that's  an  adiabatic  process. One,  all  right?  Okay. You  may  recall  that  we wrote  these  little  deltas  there because  work  transfer  and heat  transfer  are  what are  called  path  functions,  right? We  need  to  know,  we  need  to  think  about all  the  details,  how  the  pressure, how  the  volume  varies throughout  the  whole  thing  to be  able  to  write  that  there,  okay? Internal  energy,  though, on  the  other  hand,  is  a  property,  okay? Properties  don't  give a  shit,  right,  about  path. They're  just  a  point.  I  use colorful  language  when  I want  to  drive  home  a  point,  right? So  It  was  a  bad  joke, too,  because  it  was  a  point.  All  right,  fine. So  you  have  here  the  DU  with  it,  right? So  this  difference,  right,  this  only depends  on  the  start  and  the  end,  okay? Now  I'm  saying  I  have  no  heat  transfer  there. I  have,  you  know, this  path  function  that's  there. Once  I  get  rid  of  this  one, right,  what  do  you think  happens  to  this  little  delta  here? What  does  it  become? So  I  have  on  the  one  side, something  that  only  depends on  the  start  of  the  end,  right? I  got  rid  of  the  other  one  that was  a  path  dependent. So  this  becomes  Yeah,  DW. Okay?  All  right.  We'll  go  into  a  second. We'll  have  some  derivations  and  look  into  it. But  basically,  you  have  this as,  you  know,  thing  that  happens. You  can  also  go the  other  way  where  you  have  something  with no  work  transfer,  all  right? And  let's  say  only,  you  know, heat  transfer  associated  with  it. There's  not  like  one  term  for  it, but  a  very  common  one  is a  process  of  constant  volume. So  you  might  have  constant  volume  heating. That's  how  all  your  engines  run. Auto  cycle  runs  on a  constant  volume  heating  of  the  cylinder. Um,  and  in  that  case, there  is  no  work, and  there's  only  heat  transfer. So  you  have  basically  the opposite  situation  there,  okay? Okay,  final  thing  about  notation. So  when  we  write  something  like  this, when  we  talk  about  a  heat  heat  transfer. So  I  don't  say,  like,  heat,  I  say  heat. I  try  to  not  say  heat.  Heat  is  not  a  thing. So  heat  transfer,  um, I  He  transfer  there. I'm  going  to  talk  I'm  going  to write  this  as  like  first  quarter  one, two,  I've  like  state  one, and  I'm  going  to  state  two. So  a  difference  between  state  one and  state  two,  right, that  process  is  going to  be  like  a  first  quarter, two  or  let's  say like  a  W  one,  two,  all  right? There  is  no  W  one,  there  is  no  W  two. Yes,  please.  Equation  the  negative  sign. Oh,  that's  a  good  catch.  Thank  you. I  didn't  mean  to  I  didn't  make  yes. Okay.  Other  questions? Here  exactly  the  resistor. So  it  wouldn't  the  resistor transferring  how  you  transfer to  the  But  through  the  boundary, we  think  about  the  boundary,  right? So  if  that  basically  is  inside  of  there,  no. Yeah.  So  if  I  have  something  like  outside my  boundary  that's  hot and  then  the  inside  is  colder, then  through  that  I'll  have  heat  exchange. Yes.  But  I  could  imagine a  scenario  where  you  might  draw a  boundary  differently,  right? And  there,  maybe  that's resistors  outside  of  your  boundary, maybe  out  here  making  things  really  hot, then  you  would  have heat  being  exchanged  there. Okay?  And  another  one we'll  get  into  is  like  paddles. We  have  that  in  an  example today  where  we  basically  spin a  paddle  and  mover. Okay.  Other  questions? Okay.  So  first  quarter  two. The  final  one  for  this  slide  is that  a  lot  of times  so  for  these  problems  here, we're  probably  just  going  to  be talking  about  Q  and, first  quarter  two,  one,  two,  like  that. But  later  on,  when  we  get  to things  like  I  said,  the  Braden  cycle, the  jet  engines  there, we  tend  to  deal  with  rates,  okay? So  we're  going  to  talk  about the  rate  of  heat  transfer,  all  right? Um,  And  we're  not  going to  follow  the  beautiful  Leibniz  notation. We're  going  to  revert  to,  you  know, Newton,  and  we're  just going  to  put  a  dot,  okay? And  the  meaning  of  the  dot then  is  that,  right, it's  joules  per  second  or  watts  there,  right? So  when  I  write  that,  this is  essentially  right  the, you  know,  dq  dt, all  right?  Okay.  Yeah,  exactly. So  here,  right?  So  we  have  some  heat  in. It's  the  amount  of  heat  in. You  know,  typical  problem,  I have  things  like  mass  involved  in  it, some  amount  of  time,  right? And  so  then,  right,  if  I had  that  amount  of  Q  over  that  time, I  come  up  with  that  Q  dot. The  final  one  that  you  see  on here  is  sometimes  in  the  problems, they're  going  to  write  the  amount  of heat  transferred  on  like  a  per  mass  basis. So  they  might  say  something like  Q,  like  little  Q, and  all  little  Q  is  is  big  Q  divided  by, let's  say,  the  mass,  right? So  if  I  have  some  amount  of mass  that's  inside  of  this, um,  control  volume,  right? Then  it's  just  going  to  be  the  big Q  divided  by  little  M, gives  you  a  little  Q. And  then  the  same  for  work. Sometimes  you'll  see  a  little  W, and  that's  just  big  W  divided  by the  mass  involved  there,  okay? This  will  make  more  sense  once  you start  to  get  into  the  homework  in  that. All  right. All  right. Okay,  so  let's  analyze the  work  transfer,  though. So  let's  focus  here  for a  second  on  the  compression. Let's  say  the  compression of  I  should  keep  this  back. Hold  on. All  right,  the  compression of  our  cylinder  here. So  in  this  problem,  we  have, right,  this  piston  the  cylinder. It's  being  moved  down,  right? So  amount  dH,  okay? The  surface  area  of this  can  this  be  seen?  Yeah. The  surface  area  then  of this  cylinder  is  S,  right? So  we're  going  to  call  that  as  S. And  so  there's  a  pressure,  right? Basically,  there's  a  pressure  inside of  here  P,  okay? So  the  force  acting, so  the  force  that  we  need  to  push  down on  here  is  then  going to  be  equal  to  this  pressure,  right? Or,  let's  say,  you  know,  um,  you  know, the  pressure  that's  inside  here  times that  surface  area  of  the  um, of  the  cylinder,  okay?  All  right? When  we  move,  right,  since  the  surface here  is  perpendicular  to the  direction  that  we're  moving, this  area  S  times  dh represents  a  volume,  right? So  the  dv  here,  right, is  equal  to  this  S  times  times  dh. And  so  the  work  All  right, dw  here  is  then  equal  to  the  P  times, um,  uh,  well,  I  can  write  it  this  way. I  can  write  pdv.  We  can  say  P  dv, and  then  if  I  substitute  the  dv into  here,  then  I'll  have,  um, P  times  S  times  dh,  right? All  right.  We  can recall  then  for  this  system, all  right,  this  amount  of  work  we  can represent  as  being  equal to  the  integral,  let's  say  from  state  A. So  if  this  is  at this  position,  maybe  this  is  state  A, and  then  state  B  is  when  we  move it  down  from  A  to  B, then  of  PDV,  all  right? Cool.  All  right,  good. What  I'm  showing  you  here  on  these  plots  are a  couple  of  different  variants,  right? So  the  challenge,  really,  the  challenge in  this  kind  of,  uh, um,  of  integral  here, and  I  guess  I  could  substitute  this  in  here, so  I  could  go  A  to B  of  PS  d  just  for  completeness, but  I  want  to  focus  on  this  for  a  second. The  challenge  of  integrating  this is  that  pressure  and volume  are normally  independent  properties,  okay? So  what  can  happen  is  if  you think  about  the  ideal  gas  equation, pressure  and  volume  are  linked,  right? And  if  I  think  about  this  problem, as  I  compress  this, so  I  decrease  the  volume, what  do  you  expect  to  happen  to  the  pressure? The  back  of  the  room. It  increase,  right?  And  so,  you  know, in  order  to  execute  this  then, you  have  to  be  able  to  write  pressure as  a  function  of  volume  here,  all  right? Say  with  me,  okay? There's  different  cases  for how  that  might  happen. So  if  we  assume,  for  example, that  what's  inside  of  here  is  an  ideal  gas, PV  is  RT,  we  could  say,  all  right, let's  first  of  all,  just  focus  on the  case  where  pressure  is  constant. If  pressure  is  constant, I  can  pull  it  outside  of  the  integral, and  then  it's  just  PDV? How  does  that  look  like? PDV  constant  pressure  process. On  a  PV  diagram,  it's  just  a  flat  line,  okay? Um,  and  the  work that's  transferred  is  essentially just  the  area  beneath  that  line. Because  P  is  constant,  it's  Delta  V. So  essentially  P  Delta  V  there, then  it's just  the  shaded  rectangle  below  that  line. Right?  Okay,  one. Next  case  that  could  be  interesting  is, again,  let's  say  it's  still  an  ideal  gas. We  keep  the  temperature  constant, right?  So  it's  isothermal. If  I  keep  an  isothermal, this  is  then  what  my process  is  going  to  look  like. I  could  write  the  Pv  nRT  I  could  go  and  say Pv  is  equal  to Rt  where  this  is  the  specific  gas  constant. This  has  units  of  joules per  kilogram  per  kelvin. I  could  say  P  is  equal  to  RT  divided  by  V. I  could  substitute  that  into  there. Temperature  is  constant, so  I  can  pull  that  out  of  the  integral, and  what  you're  going  to  be  left  with  is essentially  the  integral  of  DV  over  V, right,  which  is  the  natural  log. So  I'm  going  to  have  a  natural log  times  all  that  constant  stuff, and  you're  going  to  get  this  line,  okay? Cool.  The  last  one  that  you  have  here, the  green  line  is  the  case where  we  don't  have  any  heat  transfer. I'm  not  going  to  go  into  deriving  that  today. We'll  get  more  into  the  future, but  it's  a  really  important  case. It's  a  really  important  case,  right? But  the  take  home message  of  this,  so  why  I'm, you  know,  spending  all  the  time, is  that,  again, this  whole  point  of  being  able  to execute  this  integral  is  that you  need  to  know  how  pressure  depends  on volume  for  each  part of  the  art  of  the  process,  right? And  if  you  get  it  right,  right? So  if  you're  able  on  a  PV,  you  know, diagram  to  start  at  something  like point  A  and  go  to  point  B, if  you  know,  you  know,  it's  pretty  bad. That's  like  a  parametric  plot. You  know,  but  if  you  know basically  this  whole  path, then  the  work  is  nothing  but the  entire  area  under that  integral,  all  right. Questions  about  that?  Cool. Great.  All  right.  So  again, that's  about  the  process there,  something  like  A  to  B. If  we  then  go,  you  know, full  circle,  so  I  could  say, okay,  let's  stick  with, you  know,  things  that  are  constant  pressure. So  this  isobaric  case  of  work  transfer, let's  say  all  my  heating is  done,  right,  isochorically. So  that's  the  case  where  I don't  do  work  transfer, and  I'm  only  transferring  heat  in  and  out. So  the  du  is  just  equal  to  dc. I  can  end  up  with  a  rectangle that  looks  like  this,  right? I  And  why  is  this  important? So  if  I  think  about,  let's  say  the  process of  I  bear  compression. You  know,  if  I  think about  so  if  this  is  A  to  B, C  to  D,  so  here, what  I  have  at  the  lower  pressure  is  I have  an  expansion  process,  right? I  have  some  work  below  that's  done. I  have  C  to  D  here,  some  compression  process. I  could  take  the  area  under  that. What's  important  to  know  about  a  cycle  is then  the  area  that's  shaded  in  between,  okay? So  if  you  take  the  entire  integral and  you  end  up  on that  cycle  to  where  you  start, it's  the  shaded  area  on  something  like a  PV  diagram  that's  relevant,  okay? We'll  call  that,  in  the  future, we'll  get  through  it. But  essentially,  it  can tell  you  about  the  network,  right? Because  again, this  process  here  on  the  bottom would  be  the  network  transferred  in,  or  out. The  one  below  here  is the  amount  transferred  in, and  then  the  difference  is  what  we call  is  the  network,  okay? In  your  car,  that's  like  go,  right? So  that's  like,  you know,  what  you  get  out  of  it. What's  more  subtle  and not  exactly  clear,  you  know, here  at  the  moment  is  that when  you  do  a  full  cycle  like  that, the  network  that  you  have out  must  be  equal  to the  net  heat  that  you  transfer  in,  okay? The  reason  is  that  you  need  to end  up  at  the  same  initial  state. You  can't  have  any  change  in  energy. So  whatever  you  have  out  must  be equal  to  ultimately what's  transferred  in,  okay? That'll  become  clear. Yeah,  I  can't  emphasize  this  enough, but  heat  and  work  are just  transfer  mechanisms. These  are  not  properties that  should  be  made clear  because  these  things  are, you  know,  properties,  but  that  whole  area under  it  is  what represents  the  work,  all  right? Cool. Yeah,  again, these  things  happen  at  boundaries, like  I  showed  you,  um,  you  know, there,  especially  with  the  cylinder. This  is  kind  of  an  obvious  one where  this  is  happening at  a  boundary  and  it's  pushing  it  down. These  boundaries  can  shrink. So  these  control  volumes  that I  show  you  here,  this  dashed  lines, just  like  I  did  with  the  blue, it's  just  for  completeness,  right? I  could  show  that  this  is  then  the  new, um,  you  know,  blue  boundary  after, um,  you  know,  moving  it  down, these  things  can  basically  shrink and  expand,  you  know,  with  them. But  work  in  heat then  are  always  happening  at, at  a  boundary,  okay? And  I  emphasize,  you  know, that  their  path,  right? The  way  to  visualize  path. Why  is  it  a  path  function? Because  this  is  the  path,  right?  Yeah. I  tried  to  make  that  also clear  here  that  the  point  is  that, you  know,  until  we  know,  you  know, complete  information  then about  the  path,  right, we're  going  to  say for  the  path  functions  that they're  basically  little  delta,  right? I  think  the  book is  pretty  consistent  on  this, but  if  you  go  on  the  Internet  and  read, all  right, not  everyone  is  super  consistent  with the  with  the  Delta  notation,  all  right? Okay.  We're  going  to  show  this  one  again. So  just  to  remind  you a  little  bit  about  sort  of these  differences  in  the  past, why  we  care  about  the  path, you  know,  consider  this  expansion  process. So  here  we're  starting  off  with the  same  temperature  and  the  same  volume, and  what  I  want  you  to  focus on  is  the  work  transfer,  right? Here  you  have  reversible, no  heat  transfer  in, so  reversible  adiabatic, and  on  the  right  here, irreversible  and  an  adiabatic,  all  right? All  right.  And  so,  again, you  basically  have  the  same  conditions, but  you  have  differences in  the  final  state,  right? So  you  have  differences  in  the  temperatures, differences  in  the  volume. And  as  a  result  of  that,  you  have differences  in  the  amount  of work  transferred,  okay? Someone  raising  their  hand or  no.  Phantom  hand? Cool.  All  right.  Yes.  All  right. So  just  to  really,  you  know, uh,  be  a  broken  record  here. Here  you  have  same  initial  state,  same  final, just  like  I  showed  on  the  other  plots with  these  different  process  A  process. B,  right  in  process  A  with  the  green, you  have  less  area  below  it  versus process  B  where  you  have  more  area. In  one  of  them,  you  have more  work  transferred out  of  your  system than  the  other  case,  right? Cool.  Yeah,  I  think  I  said  this. Yeah.  So  here,  you  know,  again, so  we  did  this  with  the  Delta  Vs,  right? So  volume  rate  is  a  property. So  we  can  write  it  that  way. Whereas,  you  know,  with  Delta  W, when  you  integrate  it,  it's  W  one, two,  and  not  Delta  Delta  W.  All  right. Um,  let's  get  to an  example  because  I'm getting  a  little  bit  bored. So,  um  You  know,  here,  right? So  when  you  set  up  a  problem,  right? And  we'll  get  to  the  one  in a  start  to  draw  the  one  here, and  then  it'll  help  us,  right? So  the  first  stage  here, we  look  at  this  problem  is, you're  going  to  draw  this  box, this  beautiful  box  that someone  put  a  propeller  in. Guess  it  could  be  a  fan,  you  know,  do  that. So  we  have  this  beautiful, you  know,  propeller.  Okay? So  I'm  following  this  part  right. When  I  analyze  this  thing,  all  right? So  I'm  going  to  draw  then  within  here, this,  um,  Let's  control  volume. With  that. So  basically  with  the  control  volume, I'm  drawing  the  boundaries. You  know,  with  that,  in  this  problem, I'm  saying  that  I  have  some  Q  out,  right? So  I  have  some  heat  that's  being transferred,  you  know,  out  of  that. I'm  told  that  I'm  transferring some  work  into  that. So  we  have  some  work  that's it's  basically  being  transferred, you  know,  into  that. We're  told  that  we  have  here,  like  a  fluid, a  known  fluid,  and they  tell  us  about  our  states,  right? So  we  have  this  process. So  it's  state  one,  Okay? I'm  told  that  I  know  U  one, U  is  equal  to  800,  you  know,  kilojoules. And  I  don't  think  I have  any  other  information except  that  the  Q  out  is  500, you  know,  kilojoules  and  my  in  is equal  to  100  kilojoules,  right? So  how  do  you  analyze  this  problem? So  you  draw  this  control  volume  here, and  this  is  going  to be  essentially,  you  know, any  changes  in  energy  into  here, we're  going  to  call  as  Delta  E  S,  okay? All  right.  All  right. So  this  is,  you  know, when  I  teach  this  before,  this  is like  your  bank  account,  okay? You  can  have  credits. You  can  have  debits. This  one  sure  looks  like  a  lot is  going  out  and  a  lot  less  is  coming  in. That's  what  happens  when  I  go  to  Safeway. So,  you  know,  so  you  have a  lot  more  out  than  you have,  you  know,  in  there,  okay? And  just  like  accounting,  again,  yeah, we're  interested  in  the  credit. So  for  the  credits  that  come  in,  right, we're  going  to  call  this  as  E  in,  all  right? And  then  this  is  going  to  be  subtracted by  E  out,  all  right? So  I  think  that's  pretty  straightforward, the  amount  that  you  have the  change  in  what  you  have here  in  this  control  volume  is equal  to  the  energy  we  transferred in  minus  the  energy  that  we  transfer  out. What  are  the  ways  that  we can  transfer  energy  in? Work  in  heat.  So  we  can  call  this as  like,  I  don't  know, Q  in  Q  in  plus  W  in minus  Q  out  plus  W  out?  Okay. Do  we  have  any  heat being  transferred  into  this? No. There's  no  heat  transferred  in, Is  there  work  transferred  in? Yes.  Is  there  heat  transferred  out? Is  there  work  transferred  out?  No. What  you  rewrite  this  then  as  saying,  Okay, the  change  in  the  system  is  then going  to  be  equal  to  W in  minus  Q  out? Cool.  All  right.  That  looks  good. How  do  we  deal  with the  energy  of  this  system,  though? Okay.  So  we  can  go  with  the  initial. So  the  initial  would  be what  like  E  one,  right? Okay.  Say  it  again,  sorry. Yes.  Yeah.  And  then it's  state  two  plus. I'm  not  sure  I  follow. So  let's  talk  about  this.  So  if I  just  say  about  the  Delta  E  system, and  if  I  wrote  E  one  here, what  would  one  naively  write  here? E  two,  right?  Okay. And  how  would  we represent  let's  stay  with  E  one. So  what  do  you  think  E  one  is  equal  to? Exactly. So  more  specifically,  right, in  our  case,  E  one  is  equal  to  E  one,  right? And  you  could  say,  Professor,  why  is  that? I  could  say  refer  to  lecture  one  A. Or  what  I  could  say  is  that  in  this  system, You  know,  the  only  energy,  right, that  we  can  store  is,  like,  thermal,  right? I  don't  have  a  lot  of  kinetic  energy. Probably  actually,  if  you look  at  a  kinetic  energy  is  like, kinetic  energy  means  like  I  don't  know, throwing  a  rock  or,  you  know, the  fluid  is  only basically  possessing  internal  energy. But  it  could  be  that if  we  pump  this  really  high, maybe  you  might  have  potential  energy or  kinetic  energy,  right? But  right  now,  it's  only,  you  know, we  don't  have,  you  know,  E. No,  we  don't  have  potential  energy. KE  or  PE.  We  don't  have  that,  okay? Cool.  What  about  U  E  two? So  what  would  E  two  be  equal  to? U  two,  U  two,  right? Not  the  band.  All  right. So  here  you  have  then  you two  minus  U  one,  right? And  if  we  rearrange this  or  if  I write  on  a  different  part  of  the  board, basically  right  U  two  would  be  equal  to U  one  plus  W  in  minus  Q  out,  right? And  we  know  one  is  800  kilojoules. W  in  is  100  kilojoules, Q  out  is  500  kilojoules,  right? So  I  have  800  plus  100  is  900  -500. So  that  should  be  400  kilojoules is  equal  to  two,  all  right? That's  pretty  much  the  class,  okay? Like,  everything  else  is  just  going  to  get more  I  mean,  it'll  get  cooler. Like,  we'll  definitely  get into,  like,  neater  things, but,  right,  that's  pretty  much  it. Like  this  is,  again, thermo  accounting,  right? I  have  this  control  volume. So  the  change  in  the  amount  of  energy stored  here  is  equal  to  how much  I  put  into  it  minus how  much  I  take  out  of  it,  okay? Um,  all  right. You'll  also  notice  here  that I  started  to  write  things  like  Qn, Wn,  Q  out,  and  W  out. That's  because  I  spent a  long  time  in  a  German  speaking  country, and  they  love  things  to  be perfectly  accurate.  All  right? So  just  writing,  like,  Delta,  you  know, E  is  equal  to  Q  minus W  implicitly  means  that, like,  in  that  case,  so  what  is  Q,  Q, If  it's  positive  means  heat  in, if  Q  is  negative,  it  means  heat  out. If  W  is  positive,  it  means  work  in. If  W  is  out,  it  means  work  is  positive. It  sounds  exhausting.  I'm  like, my  face  hurts  talking  this  much. So  I  am  going  to  generally be  very  explicit  about  Q  in, W  in,  and  that,  okay? What  does  this  mean  in  terms of  sine  convention? It  means  that  these  are  always positive  quantities,  right? So  if  I'm  writing  it  in  this  way,  right? So  this  is  energy  in,  right,  that's  positive. This  is  energy  out,  the negative  is  there,  okay? So  that  also  simplifies, you  know,  with  it.  Yes,  please. You  find  a  way  to  get  work  out  of  this, we  can  start  a  company.  I'm  at  a  loss. No,  it's  not  true.  I  mean, I'm  just  saying  that  this  is  a  thing. You  know,  if  you  want  to get  work  out  of  a  propeller, you  know,  how  do  we  normally get  work  out  of  a  propeller? Yes,  please.  Yes,  you  move  a  fluid. You  basically  hit  it,  right?  Like,  I got  a  little  more  cell  to  turbines. You  move  a  fluid,  it hits  that,  and  then  it  moves,  right? That's  generally  how  you want  to  learn  more  about  that. You  get  me  146. I  usually  I  taught  that  last  spring. So  yeah,  you  move  the  fluid, and  then  from  that, you  can  extract  work  from the  kinetic  energy  of  the  air,  right? So  that  moving  energy  of  the  air, you  transfer  that  into the  blade,  and,  you  know, you  spin,  you  know, a  generator  and  get  that,  okay? And  that's  foreshadowing  what's  to  come. But  in  that  case, you  need  air  to  be  moving  in. Right  now,  I  can't  bring  air  in,  right? I  got  a  I  got a  stuffy  room  here  with the  fan  spinning,  okay? Yeah. It's  also  an  interesting  thing  because  if you  think  about  this  problem, this  is  what  you  would  have. Well,  on  a  hot  day,  right, you'd  have  more  Q  in,  right  to  it. But  if  you  just  basically  spin a  fan  in  the  room,  right, you're  heating  up  the  room  slowly because  you're  transferring  work  into  that, and  over  time,  it  might make  you  feel  cooler,  but  over  time, if  you  had  no  way  to  get  the  heat  out, that's  not  an  that's not  a  winning  solution,  okay? Alright  Cool.  Other  questions  about  this? We're  crawl.  Pretty  soon we're  going  to  be  walking.  All  right. Yeah,  that's  what  I  mentioned  before. So  again,  when  we represent  an  entire  cycle  on  a  PV  diagram, and  we  take  the  shaded  area  of  that  there, that  was  the  the  net  heat  in. I  could  make  an  argument  about  it with  this  one  if  I  put  this  too. What's  best.  I  put this  here  and  I  put  this  one  to  the  side. Okay,  let's  erase  this  Excuse  me. Um,  All  right. And  so  we  have  here,  right, we  wrote  our  Delta  E,  um,  you  know, system  is  equal  to  E  in  minus  E  out. We  said  the  E  in  is  W  in  plus  Q in  minus  W  out  plus  Q  out. We  said  for  the  E  system  that  this  would be,  um,  there,  okay? So,  okay,  that's  good.  So  that's  a  fact. I'll  write  that.  Um,  If I  have  this  as  a  PV  diagram, and  let's  say  I  have  this  state, to  this  state,  to  this  state,  to  this  state. So  if  this  is  one,  two,  three, and  four,  okay?  And  it's  a  cycle. I'm  going  to  start  at  one, and  I  finish  at  one, just  like  a  track,  right? You  run  around  it,  you end  up  where  you  started,  okay? I  love  that  sport, but,  you  know,  it's  kind  of  weird. Like  you  just  like  sps, you  just,  like,  keep pushing  a  rock  up,  all  right? The  point,  though,  is  that  there  is no  change  in  the  system  in  a  cycle,  right? Because  you're  going  to  have  you one  minus,  you  won. It's  zero,  right? So  then  if  I  rearrange  this, then  I  can  define  something  for  you. Let's  say  W  net  is  equal  to  W  out  minus  W  in, and  let's  say  Q  net  is  equal  to Q  in  minus  two  minus  Q  out. So  if  I  rearrange  this, I  put  that  to  the  other  side. So  this  equation,  I'm  going  to  have W  out  minus  W in  is  then  equal  to  Q  in  minus  Q  out, which  is  just  W  net  is  equal  to  Q  net,  okay? So  I  can  write  that  or  you  can  just, like,  look  at  your  plot  and  just  say, I'm  going  to  color. Like,  it's,  you  know, kindergarten  and  you  color. You  know,  mathematically,  it's  the same  as  what  I'm  saying  here. All  right?  Cool. So  then  this  only applies  then  when  we're  talking  about heat  and  work  interactions with  a  closed  system. So  no  mass  mass  there. All  right.  So  that's  it. So  you  should  be  able  to  talk  about a  cycle,  internal  energy, go  to  a  party  and  talk  about heat  and  work  transfer, work  transfer  processes. You're  going  to  blow  them  all  away. So  I'm  going  to  close  it  here. If  you  have  any  questions,  I'm  up  here. Thank  you  very  much.
