All  right,  I  got  210. So  today  we're  talking  about property  tables  and  ideal  gas. Before  we  get  started, just  some  words.  All  right. So  in  the  first  problem, a  lot  of  these  problems, when  you  do  it  Okay. So  when  you  use  problems there,  a  lot  of  the  ones, especially  when  you  like property  tables  in  that, you're  able  to  open  this  workbook. This  workbook  is  essentially  like a  constrained  Jupyter  notebook. It  has,  like,  pre  installed  packages, like  PiKlor  and  all  of  that. Right?  So  if  you  open  that  and  launch  it, you're  going  to  see the  actual  Jupyter  Notebook  there. If  you  double  click  on  it, you  have  this  thing,  right? So  in  most  of  the  problems,  you  have an  identical  template  to this  also  in  the  practice  ones, and  this  is  going  to  be  the  same  exact  one that  you  will  see  in  a  quiz,  right? So  the  idea  is  that  you  practice  on actually  what  I'll  test  you  on. I'm  not  to  trick  you. Like,  not  in  this  class  anyways,  okay? So  yeah,  if  you  click  on  that, you  can  then  run  through  a and  see  that?  That's  one. The  second  thing  is that  I  don't  see  this  now. I  did  out  of these  slides  and  now  I  don't  see  it, is  that  when  you  use  Pi  Killor  with  numbers, it  needs  units.  This  is  not  a  math  class. It  may  be  quite  mathy,  but  it's  engineering. In  engineering,  you  got  to  give  a  unit  to  it. And  so  a  lot  of  the  book problems  and  all  of  that  will  give  things an  MPA  as  an  input,  especially  on  pressure. Calvin  is  an  input  for  like a  default  input  for  Pi  killor also  as  the  um  as  the  output. Unfortunately,  the  default  input or  fortunately, it  really  depends  on  the  problem. The  default  input  in pressure  is  like  KPA,  okay? So  I  recommend,  you  know, when  you  work  at  these  problems,  like, declare  your  units,  you  know, if  you  have  them  in  there  and,  you  know, and  sort  of  best  practice  with  that. So  if  anyone  had trouble  with  a  problem  like  this, especially  a  programming  one, that's  probably  the  source  of the  errors  that  you  haven't  declared. The  unit  for  that,  you've  just  put P  equals,  you  know, P  and  then  not  declared that  actually  that  pressure  variable is  an  NPA,  okay?  Units. Questions  about  this?  Okay.  The  GSI, Cassiine  McCormick  could  post like  a  YouTube  video  that goes  along  with  the  problem from  Homework  one, hopefully  that'll  assist  you,  okay? All  right.  So  are  we  today? We're  going  to  talk  about  ideal  gas,  right? Give  it  go  deeper into  that  and  how  it  stands  in contrast  to  other  equations  of  state that  you  can  use  and  essentially get  into  the  ones  where  we  can predict,  like  phase  transitions. That's  what  we  care  about  with  water,  right? The  fact  that  there  is  a  phase transition  right  a  lot  of  times. And  we'll  also  talk  about  go  deeper into  these  two  concepts  of  this  constant. I  said  before,  like  Q  is  equal  to  C  Delta  T, the  meaning  of  those  C's. All  right?  Okay,  so  a  refresher, right,  for  a  pure  substance,  right? Before,  if  I  take two  independent  variables,  right? I  can  compute  a  dependent  one. An  ideal  gas  is,  um,  let's  say, like  air  or  nitrogen  is  a  pure  substance. So  that  means  that  if I  take  pressure  and  volume, I  should  be  able  to  know temperature  out  of  there,  right? So  PV  I  should  be  able  to  get  the, um,  uh,  the  temperature  of  it. If  you  want  to,  like, understand  the  form  of  the  equation, right?  It's  PV  and  T. I  put  them  on  the  left  hand  side, then  that  equation  should  be  equal  to, uh  to  zero,  right? Okay.  There's  two  ways  that you  will  see  the  ideal  gas. Normally,  how  it's  taught  in chemistry  is  like  this  form, PV  equals  N,  right, which  is  moles,  all  right? RU,  which  is the  universal  gas  constant  right  in joules  per  mole  per  degrees Celsius  N  times  temperature,  all  right? So  when  you  see  it  in  this  form,  right, you  need  to  take  care  of  the  fact that  that  N  is  in  moles. And  remember  that  the  temperature  here  that you're  dealing  with  is  in  what  unit? Kelvin,  okay? The  way  to  check  yourself  is,  like, put  in  Celsius  at the  freezing  point  of water  or  the  melting  point  of  water. And  then,  like,  what  is the  pressure  that  you would  have  at  that  condition? What  are,  like,  the  two  potential  solutions to  pressure  that  you  could have  for  substituting  zero  degrees Celsius  into  that  formula? Zero  or  Infinity,  you  know,  and  beyond,  okay? So  to  avoid  Buzz  Aldrin and  whatever,  you  know, type  stuff  there, basically  stay  with  Kelvin,  all  right? Um  Okay,  that's  one  thing, right?  It  is  related. This  universal  gas  constant in  joules  per  mole  per keelvin  can  be  defined  also  in  physics. If  you've  seen  it  in  a  physics  context, sometimes  you  will  see  pv  is kt  where  N  is  the  number  of  molecules. The  K  there  is  Boltzman's  constant. Boltzman'  constant,  I  told you  before  it  is  jule  Kelvin  Actually, it's  joule  per  something  per  keelvin, joule  per  molecule,  you  know,  with  it. And  it's  related  to  the universal  gas  constant through  Abagro's  constant, right,  6.02  times  ten  to  the  23rd. I  learned  that  in  second  grade  I  think if  I  haven't  forgot  that  shit  since,  right? So  it's  like  in  here  burned  in.  All  right. So  you've  got,  you  know, this  thing  that  you  can use  to  interchange  between the  chemists  approach  and the  physicist  approach, namely  with  RU  and  KB,  right? Um,  Great.  All  right. If  we  want  to  write  the chemist  approach  in  this  class,  right, a  lot  of  times we're  going  to  be  dealing  with, you  know,  maybe  specific  volume. When  I  have  something  that  is  like, a  specific  per  mole, I'm  going  to  put  a  bar  above  it,  right? So  if  I  have  my  V  bar  here,  right, this  is  going  to  mean  that  it's  meters cubed  per  mole,  right? I'm  not  really  going  to  use  this  very  much. It's  not  really  going  to  come  up  again, I  think,  until,  like, I  don't  know,  combustion, whenever  that's  a  distant  future  problem for  us,  very  distant. But  for  now,  right, that's  what  the  bar  will  mean. It  doesn't  mean,  like,  a  mean  value. It  means  that  it's  on  a  per  mole  basis,  okay? One  thing.  The  second  thing  is  that, um,  a  lot  of times,  we're  not  going  to  use  this. So  how  do  we  use  it? How  do  we  typically  would  use  it? Let's  say  we're  going  to have  P  little  V,  right? So  that's  going  to  be  meters  cubed  per kilogram  is  equal  to, you  know,  let's  say, R  times  T,  right? This  is  one  way  or  we're  going  to  see P  capital  V  is equal  to  mass  M  times  R  T,  okay? Now,  this  R  is  not  universal,  okay? It  depends  on  the  substance  involved. Actually,  that  was  like  a problem  historical  development  of the  ideal  gas  equation  is no  one  could  figure  out  exactly  what  R  is. Also,  interestingly,  in  my  reading, no  one  is  quite  sure  why  we  use R.  Maybe  a  French  guy, you  know,  but,  like, so  there's  the  universal  R, and  that  is  universal,  and  that's  per  mole. But  as  soon  as  we  get  into  this  R, at  the  unit  of  this  R  is  right, it's  going  to  be  energy. So  it  can  be  joule  or  let's  say, a  lot  of  times  in  the  book,  you'll  see, like  kilojoule  per  kilogram  elvin  okay, or  kilojoule  per  kilogram  degree  Celsius, are  the  same,  um,  um, right,  one  degree  change  in  Kelvin  is one  degree  change  in,  uh,  in  Celsius. So  there's  going  to  be this  value  for  water,  right? There's  going  to  be  this  value  for,  you  know, whatever  substance  that  exists  there,  okay? And  obviously,  like  in  a  quiz or  something, I  would  just  give  you  this  value. I  don't  expect  you  to  memorize  it. I  didn't  learn  that  in  elementary  school, so  I  don't  remember  it,  okay? Um,  Cool. So  but  that's  basically  the  difference. So  like  I  said, we're  going  to  be  using  pretty  much for  most  of  the  time  this  form  of  it. You're  gonna  have the  specific  gas  constant  rate, which  depends  on  the  substance. And  these  things  exist,  like  in  a  table or  in  a  you  know, you'll  just  have  a  value,  and  it'll  be given  normally  in  the  problem,  okay? Questions  about  that?  Yes,  please. Name  in  question.  An  M.  Okay. The  reason  why  I  use  an  M  is  because  there's an  M  in  mechanical  engineering and  we  are  biased,  okay? The  real  reason  is  that  it's  mass,  right? A  lot  of  times  we're  going  to  be  dealing like  this  problem  later  on  when  we  work. Maybe  there's  some  on  a mass  of  air  that's  in  here. I'm  a  mass  of  water. Don't  my  ruler  stick  is  not  moles,  right? If  told  me  to  tell  you  how  many moles  of,  you  know,  stuff  in  here, I  wouldn't  know  what  to  put,  okay? So  we  use  M  because  it's  practical. And  a  lot  of problems  in  mechanical  engineering. Like,  if  you  measure,  um,  You  know, a  lot  of  the  systems  and instrumentations  are  going  to be  about  weighing  things  when you're  in  the  industry,  right? I  measure,  like,  a  mass  flow  rate. You  know,  I  don't  measure  like a  molar  a  molar  flow  rate,  right? Does  that  answer  your  question  or  no? Good.  Other  questions? Okay.  Cool. Okay.  Yes.  Yeah,  and you  can  go  back  and  forth,  right,  you  know, from  being  in  a  molar, from  a  molar  basis  to a  kilogram  by  using  the  molar  mass. So  that's  exactly  how  you  get  to an  R  value  like  this  is  you would  take  the  universal  gas  constant, you  know,  RU,  right, and  transform  it  using  molar  mass. So  that's  the  value  for carbon  dioxide  there,  okay? Mostly  informational,  but,  you  know, I  have  to  say  it because  if  there's  one  equation, the  most  abused  equation  in  this  class, it  is  this  equation. Okay?  You're  going  to  do  shit like  I  want  to  use  this  for  water,  okay? And  you  shouldn't  do  that,  all  right? That's  like  a  no,  no,  alright. We'll  get  into  why  you don't  use  that  basically  for  water. But  the  other  way  that  it's  abused  is people  are  using  basically  the  right, the  wrong  value  for  the  gas  constant. Allright?  Yeah,  so  where  is  this  valid? This  equation,  right,  is  valid  for things  with  very  low  density,  right? Is  a  liquid  low  density?  No,  okay? A  liquid  is  about  1,000  times denser  than  it's  like  vapor  form, okay?  One.  So  liquids? No,  definitely  out  of  the  question. When  it  comes  to  gases,  you  know, usually  it's  sort  of  okay  as  long  as  you're not  approaching  the  point where  a  gas  will  condense,  okay? So  that's  exactly  why water  vapor  doesn't  work,  right? There's  an  attraction,  to  it,  okay? And  so,  really  the  conditions  where  you  have low  density  is  you  have  a vacuum,  right,  low  pressure. So  lower  pressure  conditions or  at  very  high  temperature. It's  a  pretty  decent  equation. And  then  these  are  the  substances it  works  for  right,  air,  nitrogen, oxygen,  and  so  on  and  so  forth. You  probably  haven't  seen  like  well, maybe  you've  seen  a  liquid  version of  this.  You've  seen  a  rocket. I  don't  know  about  CO  two. But  otherwise,  you  know,  most  of  these  ones, you  never  would  have  seen  a  liquid  form. And  water  vapor  and refrigerants  should  not  be used  because  you  know, a  lot  of  times  in  our  systems, when  we  put  in  the  values  of pressure  and  temperature  that  are  relevant, we're  near  a  saturation  point. We're  basically  near  a  point where  they're  going  to  condense. And  this  model  doesn't include  an  attractive  term,  okay? Yeah,  so  let's  think  back  again  a  bit. Like,  what  is  an  ideal  gas? An  ideal  gas  is,  like, molecular  dynamic  simulations  you  did,  right? A  bunch  of  billard  balls that  all  they  do  is  they crash  into  each  other  and  they  never  stick, right?  They  never  stick,  right? All  you're  doing  is  writing,  like, you  know,  the  sum  of  forces, you  know,  with  some  point  mass, and  they  hit,  but  there's never  like  a  transfer  of that  kinetic  energy  or an  attractor  where  basically  they start  to  stay  together. And  because  of  that,  it will  not  work  for  water,  right? You  need  a  different  equation  of state  if  you  wanted  to  then  add an  attractive  term  to  that,  okay? Yeah,  so  if  there's  phase  change involved,  no. And  by  default,  in  this  class, I  swear  to  you  know,  whatever. You  write  the  ideal  gas  equation for  water,  and  it's  like  a  zero. Like,  I'm  not  even  I'm  sympathetic. I'm  sympathetic  in  so  many  ways. But,  like,  you  do  that,  and  it's  like, I  need  to  send  a  message. I've  sent  a  message  today, but,  you  know,  it's  just  don't  do  it. And  especially  don't  do  it  because  you  have a  thermo  calculator  to deal  with  water,  right? Yeah.  Okay.  Cool.  All  right. Any  questions  about  that? Otherwise,  I'll  dive  into this  beautiful  example  here. All  right? Okay.  So  what  problem  are  we  looking  at  here? We're  looking  at  a  problem  where initially  we  have some  container  of  volume  V  one,  okay? So  I'm  declaring,  like  two  containers. One  is  container,  let's  say, capital  I  to  the  left, Roman  numeral  one  to  the  left. Then  let's  say  Roman  numeral two,  you  know,  to  the  right. The  volume  of  Roman  numeral  one. So  this  container  on  the  left  is equal  to  V  one,  all  right? And  the  volume  on  this  side  is  equal  to five  times  the  volume  here,  right? So  we'd  say  basically  five,  five  V  one. This  side  contains  mass,  right? So  we  have  basically  some  mass, some  gas  or  whatever  that's,  um, you  know,  ideal  gas  that's  in  here. And  on  this  side,  we  have  a  vacuum,  alright? The  left  hand  side,  we  say  is at  460  degrees  Celsius. Why  not?  And  a  pressure P  one  that  we  don't  know. Alright?  And  what  we're going  to  do  is  we're going  to  take  this  partition. So  the  thing  separating the  left  from  the  right, we're  gonna  remove  it,  right? We're  suddenly  going  to  remove  it. We're  going  to  let  this  gas expand  to  the  right  hand  side.  Fine. And  at  the  end  of  this,  what we're  going  to  do  is  we're  going  to transfer  some  amount  of  heat  into this  combined  system  such  that the  final  pressure  is equal  to  the  initial  pressure. I'm  exhausted  saying  that. So  who  would  bother in  their  right  mind  with  doing  this? I  asked  myself  as  I wrote  all  that  out  and  said  it. Jewel,  right? So  I'll  put  this  to  the  side so  maybe  it's  easier  for  everyone  to see  Jewel  James  Jewel, this  was  a  problem  that  really  concerned him,  his  thoughts,  right? Um,  and  it  had  to do  with  the  fact  that  if you  think  about  sort  of,  you  know, these  kind  of  ideal  gas  relations  and  stuff, and  we're  thinking  about  how  properties, maybe  like  internal  energy, might  depend  upon  temperature. He  was  coming  up  with kind  of  clever  experiments where  he  would  keep, you  know,  have  a  big  change  in  volume, um,  you  know,  associated  with, you  know,  with  a  process  or maybe  a  big  change  in pressure  associated  with  the  process. And  he  wanted  to  see  if  there  was  a  change  in temperature  with  that,  right?  There. And  I'll  get  to,  you  know,  in the  following  part  of  what  his  result  was, what  he  basically  learned  that ideal  gases  depend  on,  all  right? Okay,  so  what  can  we  do? So  I've  got  the  values here  that  I've  written,  okay? I've  got,  you  know, what  I  want  to  determine  what  I've  well, maybe  I  can  put  it  to  the  middle. Okay,  into  the  middle. But  what  I  want  to  determine  is  T  two  here. I've  got  some  assumptions,  right? The  other  assumption  is  that  I'm  going  to assume  that  this  is  an  ideal  gas. Okay.  Now  get  rid  of  this. We  don't  need  this  anymore.  Right? Okay,  I  feel  good  about  this,  right? And  we  know  that  we  have  this  initial  state, in  the  final  state  that  we  want  to  go  to. So  the  step  one  with  this  is  we'll  go to  our,  our  physical  laws. So  we'll  say  for  the  initial  state,  right, I'll  have  a  P  one  times  a  V  one, which  is  equal  to  the  mass one  times  the  ideal  gas  constant. Um.  I'm  not  sure if  we're  told  the  gas,  but  it's  okay. So  we  have  some  value  R,  and  then  we have  T  one  there,  okay? And  what  we  can  also  do  is we  can  write  the  same  equation  at state  two  when  we're  in  equilibrium. So  I  can  do  p2v2  is  equal to  two  R  times  T  two, and  we  assume  it's  the  same  gas, so  it's  the  same  value  of R.  We  can  do  a  substitution,  right? So  we  know  the  volume two  as  a  function  of  volume  one,  right? So  I  would  have,  P  two  times  five. You  know,  V  one,  that's the  partition  that's  on  the  right  hand  side. But  if  it's  an  expansion  process, what's  actually  my  total  volume?  All  right. So  if  this  is  right,  my initial  control  volume that  I've  drawn  here  with  my  boundary, and  then  I'm  going  to  allow  that  to  expand. You'll  get  some  nice  colors. So  that's  my  state  control  volume from  one  if  I  then  expand  that  out, you  know,  is  basically  where  we're  at that  at  state  two. And  then  this  control  volume  is  what  we, you  know,  the  size  of  it  for  state  one. What's  then  the  volume at  state  two?  So  let  me  write  it  this  way. So  V  two  is  equal  to  what? 661,  right? Yeah.  Okay,  so  61  there. So  this  is  plus  V  one,  right? So  six  V  one,  and  again, that's  equal  to  R  T  two,  okay? So  that's  a  pretty  decent  equation. And  we  have  this  one  here.  What  do  we know  about  P  two?  It's  P  one. Then  we  have  here  P  one  times six  the  one  is  then  equal  to  two. Sorry,  two  R  T  two. Now  in  this  process,  we  don't have  any  mass  transfer. The  amount  of  mass  that  I  have here  my  initial  state is  equal  to  the  amount that  I  have  at  my  final  state. So  what  I  can  do  then  is  I  can  just call  this  I  can  leave  it as  one  or  two  or  I  can just  call  it  as  if  I  wanted  it,  right? Now  to  compute  T  two  from  this  Let's  see, what  we're  going  to  do  is I'm  going  to  take  equation  one. Let's  call  this  equation  one. And  let's  call  this  then  equation  two, and  I'm  going  to  take  the  ratio,  right? So  I'm  going  to  take  the  ratio  of  equation two  divided  by  equation  one. And  so  what  I'll  have  here  then, right  is  P  one, six,  V  one  is  equal  to  two  R  T  two,  right? And  both  sides  are  then  divided by  P  one  times, right?  This  is  V  one. And  then  on  the  right  hand  side,  right, I  have  one  R  T  one,  right? Is  this  visible? No,  not  visible. Yeah,  that's  visible.  This  part  is. Okay.  Maybe  I'll  just  go to  full  screen  for  a  second. Hmm.  Okay.  Now,  what  cancels  here, right  is  we're  going  to  lose  the  V  one, which  is  out,  right? There's  no  mass  transfer, so  the  M's  are  the  same.  Idel  gas. We  assume  that  there's  no  change in  the  composition  of the  ideal  gas  that  we  have  there. So  the  R  goes  away. And  so  then  if  we  rearrange,  what  do  I  have? And  also  the  pressure,  right? So  here,  the  pressures  also  drop,  right? So  the  pressures  drop,  and  it's  like  that. And  so  then  what  we'll  have  is  that  T one  or  T  two  is  going to  be  equal  to  six  times  T  one,  right? I  think.  Yeah.  Pretty  right. Sure.  Yes,  please. So  what  did  I  say  was  on  this  side,  though? The  vacuum,  right?  So  vacuum, you  know,  here  and  you  do  that. Okay.  The  other  way  that  this  experiment is  done  is  if  you've  seen, like,  a  shock  tube. So  if  you  ever  want  to  study the  species  that  come  out  of,  like, the  end  of  a  rocket  nozzle  and  all  of  that, they  do  these  really  cool  experiments where  you  basically  generate, like,  a  shock  wave  there. And  the  way  that  you  can  do  that  is  you have  really  high  pressure  up  here  and  then, like  a  very  thin  membrane  that  you  like, blow  open,  and  then  you can  watch  the  shock  and  measure, like,  evolution  and  cool  stuff  like  that. So  for  the  aero  students  in  the  room. Yes.  Yes,  please. Yeah,  I  mean,  it's  math. You  can  do  that,  but  then  at  the  end  of  it, you  wanted  T  two  as  some  form  of  that. Yeah.  Other  questions? No.  Okay.  Yeah,  and  I'm  assuming, right,  that  you  can  do  the  substitution. It's  just  important  that  for  T  one,  right, when  we  do  the  substitution, that  T  one,  what  is  it  equal  to? We  said  two  or  460  degrees  C plus  273.15  there, and  then  that'll  get  you  into  Kelvin,  right? So  you  basically  have  to multiply  six  times  that, and  then  you'll  have  actually  a very  large  that's  a  pretty  six, it's  like  seven,  that's like  a  number  approaching the  temperature  of  the  sun. That'd  be  a  fun  experiment. Okay.  Great.  All  right, so  if  there's  no  other  questions then  with  that,  we'll  move  on. So  what  I'll  do  now  with this  while  I  get  myself  set  up  is, again,  kind  of  repeating  on the  property  value  determination. Hopefully,  some  of  you  had  had  a  chance  to try  with  the  PCulor  otherwise, you're  free  to  go,  you  know,  with  the  table. So  in  this  problem, what  you're  going  to  start  off  with is  a  superheated  vapor  at  this  condition. You're  going  to  cool  it  down  with constant  pressure  until it's  a  saturated  vapor. And  the  question  here,  there's  two. The  first  is,  what is  T  two  for  the  water  vapor? And  then  what  would  T two  be  for  the  ideal  gas? And  the  idea  out  of  that  second  part  is  to compare  and  contrast  what  the  ideal  gas  is able  to  do  for  you  versus  what  is actually  the  ground  truth  for  that,  okay? I  have  to  launch  this,  so  just bear  with  me  of  any  substance. In  this  case,  the  equals  to  one, an  ideal  gas  equation is  not  going  to  cut  it,  right? How  much  air  did  I say  was  allowed  in  this  class? 2%,  okay?  That's  much  more  than  2%. Okay?  Great.  Any  questions  about  this?  Okay. Cool.  So  if  you do  want  to  use  an  equation  of  state,  though, to  get  at  this  process  of interaction  and  condensation  there, you  can  add  an  attractor  term. So  you  can  take  the  ideal  gas  equation, go  in  and  put  a  term  that  says, Hey, the  molecules  now  like  each  other,  right? They're  not  indifferent  to  each  other. They  like  each  other.  And  this was  the  work  of  Vandervals,  right? So  Vander  Walls, maybe  you've  heard  of  it  before. But  he  did  his  like, doctoral  dissertation  on  this, which  actually,  if  you  look  at  it, is  kind  of  unbelievable,  right? I  mean,  So  what? Like,  26-years-old,  you  know, going  in  there  and  then  writing  this  up. And  all  at  a  time when  people  weren't  really  sure  that, like,  Adams  existed,  right? So  if  you  read  about,  like,  people  like Ernest  Mach  of  the  Mach  number, Mach  didn't  believe  in  the  Adam,  right? So  he  was  a  positivist. He  thought  if  you  couldn't measure  something,  it  didn't  exist. Or,  you  know,  it  can't  you  know, it's  not  even  a  question, you  know,  worth  asking  there. But  Vandervo'  probably because  he  was  young,  you  know? He's  like,  Okay,  I  don't care  what  those  old  guys  think. But,  um,  you  know, so  you  went  in  and  did  it,  okay? So  that's  one  part.  So  you had,  like,  an  attractor  term. The  other  thing  is  that  with  an  ideal  gas, the  gas  molecules  don't  occupy  a  volume. Even  if  I  show  you  that  Biller  bolt simulation,  they  don't  have  a  volume. They're  point  sources,  okay? So  if  you  want  to  get  this  right, especially  when  you look  into  the  condensation and  processes  like  that, they  have  to  have a  finite  volume  to  them,  okay? Okay.  So  B  is  the  volume  term. So  that  says  that  there's  a  finite  volume to  these  atoms  or  molecules. And  the  AV  squared  term  is  the  attractor. This  is  basically  what says  that  at  some  point, there's  some  amount  of that  we  like  each  other,  right? So  if  I  plot  a  PV  diagram, so  let's  say  I  take,  um, you  know,  a  high  temperature, let's  say  I  take the  temperature  at  the  critical  point for  for  water,  okay,  right? I  can  produce  a  plot that  shows  this  behavior,  right? This  is  nothing  but  Pi  killor  and  computing, and  that's  like  how  my  isotherm would  look  like  in  a  PV  diagram,  okay? If  I  now  take  Vander  Wall's  formula, which  I  had  before,  okay, I  take  that  and  I  can  compute  A  and  B. I'll  go  into  a  second  how  you  compute those  A  and  B  constants, but  I  can  compute  them. And  the  red  line,  so  the  blue  line is  Pi  killor  the  water  properties, and  the  red  line  is  Vandervals,  okay? Right?  So,  without,  like, any  knowledge  of  an  atom, right,  math  and,  like, a  bit  of  creative  thinking and  some  understanding on  things  that  were  measured,  right, he  produced  a  line  that  looked  like  that, which  I  write  a  lot  of  papers, and  that's  pretty  like  that's  pretty  not  bad. That's  like  our  better  than  our 2%  error  kind  of,  you  know, without  knowing  anything,  getting  to that  level  is  pretty  good,  right? Captures  the  trends  and  all  of  that. So  that's  pretty  neat. One,  So  that's  the  super  critical  point. Now,  you  can  go  in and  start  to  look  at  this  process. You  can  analyze this  equation  when  you  actually get  near  the  phase  transition, which  I  mentioned before  is  what's  interesting. So  the  blue  line  here,  so  we'll go  to  a  lower  temperature. Let's  say  90%  of  the  critical  temperature, which  is  647  Kelvin  for  water. I  can  plot  the  blue  line,  right? So  I  have  the  blue  line,  right? I'm  decreasing  my  specific  volume. I  hit  a  quality  of  one  of  vapor. I  get  to  quality  of  zero,  right? It's  a  saturated  liquid, and  then  I  shoot  up. That's  all  fine  and  well. You  go  through  your  Vandervals,  right? That  looks  pretty  good  until  we  get  kind of  to  the  saturated  regime. It  overshoots. It  then  undershoots, and  then  it  shoots  back  up,  okay? And  you  could  say  to  yourself, that's  a  pretty,  like,  shitty  model,  right? I  look  at  that. Like,  actually,  you, you  were  raving  about  this, and  maybe  that  guy  shouldn't  have  passed  with his  PhD,  you  know,  there. But  there's some  interesting  features  of  this. So  the  first  is  that  at  least  he  tried to  hit  the  dome  here,  you  know,  with  it. Um,  And one  thing  that's  interesting  about  this, and  now  this  is  just  me  being like  an  older  guy  telling  stories. So  if  you  want  to  go  to  sleep, you  can,  but  I  think  it's  interesting. You  can  go  from  this  point C  to  D,  okay,  right? It's  still  kind  of  moving  with a  similar  slope  that  you  had  here  coming  in. And  B  to  A,  right? It's  moving  with  kind  of  a  similar  slope  as it  exits  from  the  dome,  right? But  from  B  to  C, you  have  an  inversion,  okay? And  what's  the  consequence of  this,  all  right? So  from  A  to  B  and  C  to  D, so  the  change  in  pressure divided  by  the  change  in volume  for  a  constant temperature  is  negative,  okay? Now,  that  makes  sense,  right? If  I  take  something  and I  increase  the  volume,  right? So  let's  say  that  experiment  we  did  before, I  increased  the  volume. Without  heat  addition,  I would  expect  a  decrease  in  pressure. That's  a  negative  slope,  right? So  DPDV  should  be  negative. However,  this  shows  positive,  right? So  that  means,  like,  as  I would  increase  the  volume, the  pressure  should  go  up. And  that  makes  no  fucking  sense,  right? That  doesn't  make  any  sense,  okay? So  this,  probably  B  to  C,  is  not  allowed. Thermodynamically,  it  is  unstable.  All  right? Um,  Yeah,  so  that's  kind  of  neat. But  the  other  two  parts,  A  to  B, and  C  to  D  aren't  they're  stable. That's  allowed,  right? That  still  follows  what  we  said. And  so  what  makes  this  kind  of neat  is  that  with  this  kind  of  procedure with  Vandervals  defining  point  B and  point  C  for  substances, you  can  produce  regions  of  what we  would  call  metatability,  okay? And  again,  you're  not  going to  be  on  an  examine  stuff, but  some  things  you  should just  know,  like  water, for  example,  does  not  freeze at  0  Celsius,  right? If  I  wanted  to  freeze, you  need  to  cool  it  much  below. Much  below  zero,  okay? So  when  you  have  liquid  water, that's  a  liquid  water  below  0  Celsius, that's  a  meta  stable  liquid,  right? If  anyone  watches,  like, the  Buffalo  Bills,  you  know, play  football,  it's like  actually,  they're  good  now. They're  very  good.  But  for  a  long  time,  not. But  the  point  is,  you'll  see  like sometimes  there's  these  videos in  like  the  fridge, and  they'll  take  a  water  bottle  out  of a  fridge  at  a  game.  It's  like  hilarious. Fridge  in  a  place  where  it's  like, minus,  you  know,  whatever  degrees  Celsius. They'll  take  the  water  out  and then  they'll  like  flick  it. And  then  all  of  a  sudden, you  see,  like  solidification. Like,  suddenly  that  otling  it  caused it  to  freeze  and  that's  a  metastable  flu. It's  like  beautiful  tube. You  want  to  come  my  lab  I'll  show you  some  wacky  stuff. But  that's  a  metastable  fluid. It's  the  same  when  you  boil. If  you  boil  something,  it  doesn't happen  at  100  degrees  C  here. You  need  to  push  way  beyond  that. You  have  to  make the  surface  much  hotter  in  order  to get  the  liquid  to transition  into  being  a  vapor. And  the  same  also  in  condensation. It  doesn't  happen  at  the  dew  point. You  usually  got  to  cool  it  below,  there. And  anyways, the  take  home  message out  of  this  is  that  this  kind  of pretty  smart  young  guy  in his  graduate  studies, not  too  much  older  than  you,  you  know, went  in  and  wrote  this  kind  of seemingly  simple  formula  that produced  this  kind  of, you  know,  results,  this  insight, which  to  this  day  we  look  into. So  in  my  lab, we  look  into  a  lot  of  what  we  call these  metastable  transitions. When  does  water  boil? When  does  it  condense?  How  does  it  freeze? I'm  going  to  talk  like  we  got Boeing  executives  below  us  at  the  moment. So  in  like  30  minutes, I'm  going  to  go  talk  to  them  about some  of  the  problems  and  icing  that we  have  that  are  you  know,  that  exists  there. But  it's  kind  of  like,  you  know,  A,  B,  C, D,  it's  kind  of  it's  kind  of  neat,  okay? And  again,  all  from  young  man doing  grad  school  with  it,  okay? It's  also  interesting  to look  at  the  ideal  gas. So,  you  know,  again,  we  had  property  tables, we  had  Vandervals  you can  also  put  on the  same  plot  on  the  ideal  gas. And  from  this,  you'll  see, again,  so  very,  um, low  densities  out  here,  very  low  pressures. Everything  aligns,  okay? So  that's  all  valid.  But  who  cares? I  mean,  like,  who  cares? Like,  that's  not  where  a lot  of  the  action  happens,  right? A  lot  of  the  action happens  over  when  you  get  here. And  at  this  point, you  see  a  strong  divergence  of the  ideal  gas  equation from  the  other  two  cases,  okay? Great.  What  I  want  to wrap  up  with  here  and  let's  see  if  I  have, you  know,  the  amount  of  time  for  it. Otherwise,  I  can  continue  next  week is  this  business into  these  constants  so these  specific  heats,  right? So  in  that  problem  we  did  before, right,  we  took  basically  a  container. We  defined  a  mass. We  transferred  some  heat  into  it, and  we  wanted  to  know  what was  the  change  in  temperature. We  knew  the  change  in  temperature, and  we  wanted  to  know how  much  heat  that  we  put  in. We  did  a  conservation  of  energy. We  said  the  change  in  energy of  this  control  volume  is equal  to  how  much  enters minus  how  much  is  out. These  are  little  E,  so  this  is  like  per  mass. Um  Right, this  system  is  kept  at constant  volume,  right? So  the  change  in  the  energy  of the  system  is  nothing  but  the  change  in, um,  uh,  the  internal  energy. The  E  and  then  the  E  out  of  this  are  only going  to  be  heat  transfer  processes. And  so  what  you're going  to  end  up  with  is  that that  heat  in  is  this  constant  times  dt. And  we'll  call  this  a  CV,  right? So  it's  constant  volume, we'll  say  C,  little  V  times  dt, and  then  that's  going  to  be  equal  to  d, um,  to  little  D,  you  know,  little  U. And  then,  by  definition, so  the  definition  then  of the  specific  heat  at  constant  volume,  right, is  the  partial  derivative  of the  internal  energy  of  your  control, you  know,  of  the  system  with  respect to  temperature  for  constant  volume. We're  going  to  use  this  like a  ton,  like  a  ton,  okay? So  like  this,  Oh,  it  doesn't. We're  going  to  use  it  a  lot,  okay, especially  with  the  engines and  and  fun  stuff  like  that. So  this  is  kind  of  like  let's call  it  factual,  okay? Factual,  right?  And  we do  the  same  heat  addition  process, but  not  constant  volume, we  have  constant  pressure. You  expect  there,  there's  going to  be  not  just  the  warming, but  potentially  work,  right? I  have  a  P  Delta  V.  So  what you're  going  to  expect  is  that that  value  should  be  higher,  right? Because  when  I  transfer  some  heat  in, I'm  going  to  do  some  work  at the  same  time  that  I'm  heating,  right? Um,  We'll  get  into, like,  what  this  term  means  as  a  little  H, but  essentially  its  definition is  the  partial  derivative  of  enthalpy, essentially  kind  of  energy  with respect  to  temperature  for  constant  pressure, and  we're  also  going  to  use  that one  a  ton,  okay? Their  units  are  energy  per  mass  per keelvin  or  energy  energy  per  mass  per  degree. So  it  could  be  degree  Kelvin  degrees  Celsius. It  doesn't  matter.  A  lot  of times,  actually,  all  the  times, it's  going  to  be  a  Delta  T.  We're always  going  to  be  working with  differences  in  temperature. So  it  can  be  differences  in  temperature, Kelvin  temperatures  and  temperature, Celsius,  as  long  as  you're consistent,  you're  good,  okay? But  again,  it's  like  heat. Because  I  put  heat  in,  I expect  the  temperature  change,  right? And  the  constant  in  front  of  it  is the  specific  heat,  okay? And  so,  coming  back  to  Jules  experiment, right,  he  was  basically  very, you  know,  very  concerned  with how  this  thing  here. So  basically  calculating,  especially  CV  here. So  if  I  kept  things  at constant  volume  and  I  made  changes, you  know,  will  I  actually measure  a  change  in  temperature,  okay? And  it  turns  out,  I'm  going  to foreshadow.  We'll  get  into  it. But  for  an  ideal  gas,  um,  You  know, this  internal  energy,  you  know, is  only  dependent  upon  temperature  there, right? So  when  you  get  to  the  CV, it  only  depends  on  that. It  doesn't  depend  on  temperature  or  it  depend on  pressure  or  volume,  okay? With  4  seconds  ago, I'm  going  to  close  it  there. If  you  have  questions  I'm  up  here. Otherwise,  I  got  to  run  downstairs. Thank  you,  everyone.  Thank  you. Thank  you.
