P I  was  he  professor, No  secret  switches,  huh? You  think  it  is?  I  mean, usually  before  they're controlled  from  the  front, but  I'll  check  on. It's  definitely  motorized. Okay,  I  got  310, so  let's  get  started.  All  right. Well,  I'm  all  full  of  energy jacked  up  Saturday. I  don't  know  if  you  watched  that  game, but  that  was  ridiculous. I  mean,  I  grew  up  in  Chicago, so  the  Bears  defense was  like,  legendary,  but, like,  five  takeaways  in  a  game is  another  level  there. Okay, so  we're  not  talking  about  defense  today. We're  going  to  talk  some  more  about  First  law here  and  starting  to  get  into  more  examples, you  know,  the  nitty  gritty  applications. And  another  thing  we're  going  to  cover today  is  the  databases. So  I  don't  know  how  many  of  you  watch, I  think  you  should  leave,  but they've  got  a  very  funny  skit  about  tables. So  more  Midwest  comedy. And  so  we're  going  to talk  about  tables  today. All  right.  So  after  today, what  you  should  be  able  to  do  to define  energy  conversion  efficiencies. We're  going  to  do  that  with  an  example  here. I'll  walk  you  up  to  that. Talk  about  a  pure  substance.  So  plots. So  we've  been  doing  PV  diagrams. We've  got  a  couple  of  other  ones,  TV, PT,  PVT  with  it. And  then  we're  going to  look  into  the  procedures  then from  going  from  these  plots and  that  into  getting  the  data, which  again  is  the  tables.  All  right. So  let's  first  start  with the  mechanical  device and  describe  mechanical  efficiency. And  I'll  work  with  Black  Pen to  try  to  make  it  better. If  someone  in  the  room knows  how  to  put  that  shade  down. That  might  be  the  most  important contribution  today. I  was  so  far  unsuccessful. Okay,  so  when  this  problem here  is  a  relatively  simple  problem, it's  a  fan,  right? So  we  have  a  fan  here. And  there's  some  work,  some  shaft work  that's  being  transferred, so  a  rate  into  it. We're  taking  air  that's at  atmospheric  pressure, and  no  velocity  initially, and  then  we're  blowing  it. And  the  point  is  that  at  the  exit, The  outgoing  is  about  12  meters  a  second, and  the  pressure  there is  also  approximated  as  atmospheric  pressure. And  the  question  here  is,  like, how  well  is  the  fan  performing,  right? Right? So  what's  the  efficiency of  this  and  how  we  rank  it? That's  what  we're  going  to  go through  in  this  problem. As  we  set  it  up, so  I  drew  the  control  volume, you  know, around  the  fan  and  the  test  section. I  defined,  you  know,  the  inlet at  this  0.1  here  with  these  conditions. And  then  at  the  exit  here  at  the 0.2  with  these  conditions. And  we  assume  that  this  is a  steady  state  process,  right? So,  you  know,  all  the  mass that's  going  in  is  leaving. We  don't  have  any  sort  of  accumulation of  potential  energy  within the  control  volume  within the  control  volume.  There,  right? So  we  can  write  the  rate  of  change. So  the  rate  of  change  of energy  within  our  control  volume,  remember, this  is  like  our  bank  account, right  so  we  have  the  money  coming  in, the  money  going  out,  and  then  the  amount that  we  accumulate. So  the  way  we write  that  accounting  is  we  have the  change  of  the  energy in  this  control  volume, what  I'm  going  to  call  E  cis  for  system  DT, is  equal  to  the  rate  of change  coming  in  minus, right,  the  rate  that  it's  leaving. So  it's  a  steady  state  process, a  steady  state  means  that  the  derivative. There's  no  temporal  dependence  with  it. So  a  steady  state,  steady  state. Right?  So  d  E  dt for  a  system  is  going  to  be  equal  to  zero. And  the  mass,  the  mass  that's  entering  here, so  the  m  dot and  the  mass  that's  leaving  here, the  m  dot,  these  are  the  same,  right? So  m  dot  is  equal  to  m, which  we  call  as  m  dot. Has  anyone  here  taken  fluid  mechanics  yet? A  few  of  you.  All  right.  So  this  is  very common  in  fluid  mechanics  notation. So  we  represent  what we  call  a  mass  flow  rate, so  the  rate  that  mass  is entering  and  the  rate  that  mass  is  leaving. And  we  write  that  in  the  Newtonian  notation with  dots,  right?  Yes,  please. The  Little  D  Delta. Yeah.  Okay,  so  I'm  going  to  unpack  that. That's  a  very  that's a  bit  of  a  deep  question. Right  now,  all  I'm  talking  about is  that  you  know, so  I'm  talking  about  how  much  energy is  coming  in  and  how  much  energy  is  leaving, and  what  you're  saying  to  me  is that  this  energy  that's  coming  in, this  could  be  heat  that's  coming  in. This  could  be  work  that's  coming  in and  the  notation  that  I  had  before. This  would  have  been  like  a  little  Delta a  little  Delta  term there  hope  you'll  bear  with  me  for  a  second. I'm  going  to  expand.  Right? The  E  dot  N  doesn't  mean  anything. I  haven't  written  work, I  haven't  written  heat. I  haven't  written  velocity. So  I'm  going  to  expand  those  terms, and  then  I'm  going  to  write  the  any  Deltas and  things  like  that  where  appropriate,  okay? Yes.  What  is  Z? Z  is  a  direction.  So  that  is  a  coordinate. Z.  Right?  It's  like  p. So  what  I'm  saying  is  at  this  point and  this  point  are  at  the  same  height. So  Z  one  is  at  the  same  height  as  Z  two. Okay?  Other  questions?  Okay. So  we've  done  this.  We  can  now  expand,  right? We  can  now  expand  and  out our  terms  and  look  at  the  many  different  ways that  we  can  transfer  energy  in,  right? So  we  said  work  could  come  in, heat  could  come  in. We  could  also  have potential  or  kinetic  energy or  pressure  from  the  flow. So  if  we  write  that  in. So  maybe  I'll  try  to  block  that  off. Actually,  maybe  I  should  do  this  fresh. So  I'll  slide  this  over.  How  far they  going  to  go  there.  Okay. So  if  we  take  this, I'm  going  to  expand  on those  two  terms.  For  those  online. I'm  looking  at  e.in  on the  video  e.in  and  e  dot  out. So  our  e.in  is  then  going  to  be  W  dot. So  the  rate  of  shaft  work. That's  coming  in  plus  the  rate  of  heat  being transferred  in  plus  m.gz. So  this  is  like,  you  know, due  to  height  height  variation  with  it, so  like  potential  gravitational  energy. We  can  have  kinetic  energy with  the  flow  there. So  this  is  going  to  be  a  one  half m.vn  squared. Then  this  could  be  plus  m  pressure, P  n  or  I'm calling  P  one,  let's  call  that  P  one, P  one,  and  then  that's divided  by  the  density of  the  fluid  coming  in. And  then  this  has  to  be  equal,  right? According  to  our  formula  with the  steady  state  to  what's  then  leaving. So  we  have  W  shaft, potentially  any  work  that's  coming out  plus  Q  dot, Plus  m  g  z  two, so  the  gravitational  energy  plus one  half  m  dot  V squared  plus  P  two  divided  by  row,  okay? So  this  is  way  more  terms  that  we  need. This  is  way  more  than  we  need  there. I'm  going  to  stay  away  from  reds  and  stuff. Apparently,  it's  not  as  visible. So  I'll  just  be  will  try  blue, see  what  blue  looks  like. But  we  don't  have  any  heat transferred  coming  in,  right? The  problem  doesn't  tell  us  that  we're bringing  any  heat  in,  right? So  this  term  is  going  to  go. We're  told  that  sorry, this  should  be  this  Markers put  to  the  graveyard. This  is  Drees.  Okay.  All  right. So  this  is  a  Z  one.  I  apologize there.  Let's  should  say  one. Z  one  is  equal  to  z  two. So  this  term  and  this  term  we're going  to  cancel  there. We  are  told  that  the  V  in is  effectively  zero.  Right? So  this  is  going  to  go  away  there. And  again,  we're  told  what  the  pressure  is that  the  P  one  is  approximately  atmospheric, and  the  P  two  is  approximately  atmospheric. Right?  So  then  this  is  going  to go  away  there. We  now  focused  on  this.  So  we don't  have  any  shaft  work that's  coming  out,  right? Our  problems  only  telling  us that  we're  putting  work  in, spinning  it  and  then  gas is  being  accelerated  or  moved. So  then  this  is  zero. And  we  don't  have  any  information  or indication  that  there's  any  heat transfer  happening  within  here. So  then  this  also  goes.  Okay. So  after  all  of  that,  What  you're  left  with is  a  conversion  between the  shaft  work  that's coming  in  being  transferred  in. So  W  shaft  is  then  equal  to one  half  m  v  squared,  right? So  what  I  said  with  words  before  that, you  know,  we're  looking  at the  efficiency  of  this,  the  performance. So  we're  saying  this  is  what  I'm  putting  in. And  then  this  is  what I  am  getting  out,  right? And  so  the  measure of  efficiency,  what  we  call  this. Is  there  a  question? Sorry,  go  ahead.  That's  Ro. So  include  mechanics  row in  thermodynamics  rows  density. So  thank  you  for  that  question. Row  is  right,  kilograms  per  meter  cubed. In  thermodynamics,  we  usually write  this  as  Little  V, which  is  the  inverse  of  Row. So  that's  specific  volume, and  that  has  the  units  of  meters  cube per  kilogram. Apologies.  Thank  you  for  the  question. Next,  in  the  back. So  it's  power.  So  again, in  Newton,  you  know, so  there  was  in Newton's  notation  with  derivatives  as opposed  to  who  was  the  German  guy? Say  it  again.  Leibnitz.  So  Leibnitz, you  learn  Leibnitz,  you  know,  in Newton,  you  do  with  a  dot. So  W  dot  means  that  it's  a  rate. So  it's  energy,  you  know, D,  WDT,  so  that's  a  power. Energy  per  time.  Yes,  please. Shaft  out.  So  we  are we  transferring  any  work  out? You  know,  Are  we  like  making a  propeller  spin  here or  may  I  ask  get  another  way. Do  you  see  another  shaft?  This  is  very  crude. That's  a  very  crude  thing,  but,  you  know, there  isn't  in  this  simplified  problem, no  indication  that  we  have any  work  being  transferred  out. Yes. This  is  like  you  could pressurize  a  tank,  right? So  you  could  go  and  at  the  end  of  this, instead  of  making  all  of  the  gas  move, you  could  just  be  compressing that  and  storing  energy  in  that  way. That's  the  meaning  of  that. So  I  could  have  a  gas, and  I  can  make  it  move  really  quick, or  I  could  take  that  gas,  and  I can  compress  it  to  a  high  pressure. Yes,  please. Can  you  say  just  as  a  thing, too,  It  really  helps  with  me,  like  a  name. If  you  say  a  name,  then  I  get  to So  that's  a  definition of  steady  state,  right? So  we  don't  have  any  variation. So  I  could  write  it  another  way. The  mass,  right, the  mass  within  the  control  volume. S. Right?  At  steady  state, there's  not  going  to  be a  variation  at  steady  state, we're  not  going  to  have  a  variation of  energy  content  within  here, and  you're  not  going  to  have a  variation  of  mass  within  here. So  if  I  have  mass  that's coming  in,  by  definition, at  steady  state,  what  comes in  must  equal  what  comes  out. So  that  is  a  great  insight. So, and  that's  indeed  what's  happening,  right? You  have  here  very  little. And  we  have  to  be  precise  about what  we  mean  here,  though,  right? So  what  you're  referring  to,  I  believe, is  like  velocity,  right? The  velocity  of  the  air feels  faster  at  the  exit than  it  does  at  the  inlet,  right? Yeah.  So,  that's  true. But  the  point  is  that  within, you  know,  a  geometry  like  this, which  is  kind  of  like  this, you  know,  nozzle,  right? I  basically  looks  like  a  nozzle. Effectively,  the  velocity  here  is very  low  compared  to  what  you  have  here. But  the  mass  flow  rate  is  the  same. What  comes  in  here  is  equal  to  what  leaves. Alright?  But  that's a  good  question.  Yes,  please. So  just  one  more  time, just  first  name,  and  then  yeah. Bryson. So,  work,  heat, potential  energy,  kinetic  energy  pressure. We'll  have  more  time  to  go  through  it,  right? This  is,  you  know, especially  in  the  coming  weeks. We're  going  to  be  a  lot  more comfortable  working  with  it. But  essentially,  the  work  and  the  heat, these  are  what  will  apply to  the  closed  systems. Those  are  the  mechanisms  by  which  we  can transfer  energy  in  and out  of  a  control  volume. But  the  other  ones  appear when  it's  an  open  system. When  I  can  bring  mass  in  and  mass  out, a  flow  can  carry  energy  with  it  too. And  in  our  experience  with  flow, you  know,  it  can  be  fast  moving  flow,  right? It  could  be  high  pressure that's  applied,  to  you, but  it  could  also  be,  you  know, the  accumulation  of  also  potential  energy. You  could  also  have  a  hydrostatic,  you  know, difference  in  height  that's  happening, you  know,  across  the  flow  there. Yes,  please.  Maybe  her and  then  I  would  look  back  to  you.  Yes. So  is  it  energy?  So  pressure is  essentially  energy  per  volume,  right? Is  energy  per  volume  term? Yeah.  Yes,  please. Name  Aa. Because  I'm  sloppy  and you  are  very  observant. So  I  do  this  to  check  on you  all,  right?  Yes,  please. But  V  is  a  Dot,  right?  This  is like  the  derivative  with respect  to  space,  right? V  is  the  velocity  there. This  is  Little  V,  right? This  is  what  I'm  writing  here  is  in V  meters  per  second  there,  right? And  I'll  write  that.  I  mean, I  could  also  write  it  the  Germans  use  W.  W. Maybe  that's  a  better  notation for  velocity  with  it, but  this  is  the  velocity  of  the  fluid  is  what I'm  writing  is  the  V.  We just  don't  have  enough  letters.  I'm  sorry. Okay,  maybe  I  do  this  if  it's  okay, and  then  I  will  definitely  take more  questions. So,  'cause  this  is  important,  right? So  this  is  what  I'm putting  in  and  what  I'm  putting  out. When  I  have  perfect  conversion, when  I  have  perfect  conversion,  right, the  work  that  I'm  putting  in  will  all become  the  kinetic  energy as  it's  leading,  right? So  I  have  the  speed.  So  we  write  efficiency. In  every  aspect  of this  course  is  written  as  Aa, the  Greek  letter  there. And  it's  the  ratio  usually  of  what  I  get  out, divided  by  what  I  put  in. So  in  a  power  plant  that  might  be  work  out, divided  by  the  heat,  divided  by, you  know,  the  heat  in  In  this  case, it's  going  to  be  our  one  half  M  dot  velocity out  squared, divided  by  W  dots  or  a  shaft  work  in,  right? So  if  Eta  equals  one,  Perfection.  All  right? You've  done  your  job  at  the  Fan  factory, you  get  in  the  promotion,  you know,  selling  it  all. If  it's  you  know, less  than  one,  you  have  losses,  right? Which, for  most  engineers  is  the  daily,  right? We  have  losses  all  the  time,  and  in  that, but  our  job  is  generally  to, you  know,  get  towards perfection,  and  that's  perfection. All  right?  Okay. Yeah.  And  so  you  could  substitute  the  values. I'm  not  going  to  go  through  it  now, but  you're  given,  you're  given  M  dot,  right? So  you  could  substitute, you  know,  the  M  dot  there. I  think  if  you  look  at the  exercise  in  the  book, they  also  give  a  value  for  the  W  SHN, and  you  can  take  this  ratio and  you'll  get  a  number,  ok? But  usually  you're  not  given  I  mean, you  would  be  you  know, if  you  were  going  to  do  this  problem,  you could  measure  the  shaft  work  in, right?  That's  like  electricity. You  could  go,  you  could  quantify  that. You  could  take  some  pedo  tubes  and go  and  measure  right  the  velocity  there. You  could  put  monometers  here, measure  the  pressure  at  these  two  locations. You  could  break  out  the  ruler and  measure  these  positions  in  principle. These  are  things  that  you  could,  you  know, do  and  say  if  it's  a  good  fan, right?  Is  that  clear? Back  to  you.  You  still  have  a  question? No.  I  did  a  good  job  at  the  end  there,  right? Perfect.  All  right.  Yes. Oh.  Maybe  I  can  tip  this  down.  All  right. Now,  substances.  So  we talked  about  that,  the  container, you  know,  the  energy  and  now  I  want  to introduce  you  some  substances. Namely,  what's  the  difference  between a  pure  substance  and not  a  pure  substance,  right? So  pure  substances,  like, I  feel  like  it  should  be  obvious, but  it's  like  pure, right?  Yeah.  All  right. So  anyways,  you  have  here.  So,  in  this  case, you  know,  nitrogen,  right? It's  only  nitrogen. It's  a  pure  substance.  In  the  case  of  air. This  is  a  little  not  great, but  it  has  to  do  with  the  fact  that the  molecules  really  don't  interact. They  behave  kind  of  an  ideal. So  there's  a  pure  substance with  something  like  water,  right? So  you  could  have  it  when  it's a  liquid  and  also  a  vapor, but  it's  all  water,  right? Water  can  co  exist,  so  this could  be  a  liquid,  this  could  be  a  vapor. But  what  is  not  the  case is  if  I  were  to  take  something  like my  liquid  water  with  vapor and  then  also  air  into  that, that's  getting  complicated,  right? That's  not  a  pure  substance,  right? And  maybe  one  could  think  hypothetically, that  a  pure  substance  might  be able  to  be  modeled  like, mathematically,  right? That  if  I  take  something  as  pure  water with  enough  time  and  smart  cow  grads, that  we  could  put  the  other  a  formula  and predict  a  priori  all  the  behavior. If  I  start  to  put more  ingredients  into  there, I  don't  know  how  these  things  interact. It  might  become  more  difficult to  compute  mathematically, you  know,  the  behavior,  right? Okay.  One.  So  that's  a  substance. To,  we  talk  about  states,  Yes,  please. I  mean,  I  don't  know if  I  could  give  it  I  could  give  it,  like, you  know,  is  it  like, simple  enough  to  model,  right? Is  it  simple  enough  to  We'll  come  later, right  what  what's  called the  equation  of  state. All  right? As  soon  as  you  start  to  have  things  that  are, you  know,  mixtures  and  all  of  that, it's  becoming  more  difficult  with  it. You'll  see  also  with  tables. We're  gonna  have  a  whole  bunch  of  tables, we'll  look  at  today  and calculations  where  we  can compute  a  pure  substance, but  we're  not  going  to  be  able  to do  the  same  thing  when  we  mix water  and  air  or  mixing  refrigerants, then  it  becomes  more  difficult. That's  a  good  question,  though, right?  All  right. So  now,  so  as  a  substance, and  now  we're  talking  about  states,  right? So  you  can  have  solids,  liquids,  gases. You  can  have  mixtures  of  liquids  and  gases, which  are  called  supercritical  fluids, right?  You  can  also  have  plasma. We're  not  dealing  with  plasma  in  this  course, but  those  are  we'll  generally see  solids,  liquids  and  gases. In  the  case  of  a  solid  more  or less,  This  is  what  Einstein  did. Einstein  said  he  could  model,  you  know, a  solid  as  essentially  being  like  a  bunch  of springs  in between  atoms  that  hold  it  together,  right? So  a  solid  is  like  the  atoms don't  change  their  position,  right? We  call  that  the  lattice. The  lattice  doesn't  change, but  they  can  kind  of  vibrate. He  kind  of  actually  stumbled  into  like quantum  mechanics  at  the  time  when it's  very  actually  very  nice  problem  called Einstein  solid  with  it. But,  yeah,  you  have  this  as  like  a  solid. When  you  get  to  a  liquid,  they still  have  interactions, but  they  move,  right? So,  you  know,  they  still kind  of  bind,  they  see  each  other. But  it's  what  we  call  as  amorphous,  right? They  no  longer  are  held  in  the  same  position. And  then  as  you  go  further, where  these  things  gain a  lot  of  kinetic  energy. They  don't  interact  super  strongly, then  you  end  up  into  a  gas,  right? So  this  is  more  or less  what  we  have  as  states. U  So  if  you look  at  the  like  a  face  change  process, which  again,  we're  going  to  do a  lot  of  this  in  the  course. You  start  off  in  this  case,  we  say,  you  know, some  pure  substance  at 1  atmosphere  in  20  C.  Here, you  start  to  heat  it,  right? It's  still  a  liquid. Then  at  this  case,  you  start  to  vaporize  it. The  point  is  that  when  you start  to  vaporize  something, gases  or  vapors  compared  to  their  liquids are  usually  about  1,000  times  less  dense, so  you  get  tremendous  expansion. Tremendous  expansion  associated  with  that. And  then  at  this  point,  then  you  have a  pure  vapor  and  you  start  to  heat. An  interesting  thing  that  you'll  note  is that  during  this  process, where  we  start  to  do  the  vaporization,  right, the  pressure  and  the  temperature are  the  same.  Right? So,  until  you  go  from,  you  know, here  to  here  to  here,  on  this  thing, you'll  see  the  pressure  and the  temperature  doesn't  change,  right? This  is  familiar,  if  you've  ever  cooked a  box  of  pasta  and  all  of  that,  right? You  put  a  thermometer  in  there. The  whole  time  as  you  do  it, it's  gonna  be  a  constant  temperature. That's  the  reason  why  you  cook  in  Denver, the  boiling  temperature  is  lower, you  need  to  cook  it  longer,  right? Cause  that  also  depends  a bit  on  the  pressure  that  you  have, but  it  is  constant. But  what's  neat  about  that  is  that, yes,  your  pressure  is  constant, your  temperature  is  constant, but  your  density  or specific  volume  is  certainly  not  constant. Right?  There's  a  variation.  So  specifying just  pressure  and  temperature, most  of  the  time  we'll  do the  job  to  tell  you  what's  going  on. But  during Boiling  condensation,  phase  change  processes, where  we  have  big  differences in  in  density  with  the  same  properties. It's  not  enough  information.  All  right. And  at  this  final  state here,  once  we  get  beyond  this, boiling  point,  we  call  this  as  superheated. So  this  is  generally  called  as  subcooled. Sometimes  if  it's  a  high  pressure, it's  called  compressed  liquid. This  is  a  saturated  liquid, saturated  liquid  vapor  mixture, saturated  vapor,  superheated  vapor,  there. All  right. So  how  does  this  look  like  on  a  plot? We  could  plot  this  as  a  TV  diagram. So  this  is  a  specific  volume  meters  cube per  per  kilogram. So  we  start  off  as  a  compressed  liquid. We  heat  it  up  to  the  boiling  point. It  starts  to  boil,  right? So,  as  I  said  before,  it's going  to  be  that  constant  temperature. Now  it's  completely  boiled, and  now  you  superheat  it. So  this  is  a  plot  of the  previous  processes  that I  just  showed  you? You  can  also  look  at  that's  the  process. If  you  want  to  see  then  the  dependence, so  the  other  way  you  can  represent  this is  a  PT  diagram, this  is  instructive  to  look  at because  there  are  relationships  for  it, and  the  point  is  that  usually  the  pressure the  saturation  pressure  sort  of  has sort  of  an  exponential  dependence on  the  saturation  temperature. That's  why,  if  you  ever  have, on  really  cold  days  and you're  outside,  there's  never  cold  here. But  like  if  you're  in  a  place  that's  like cold  and  you're  outside,  you  know, usually  your  skin  gets  dry, and  that's  because  the  partial  pressure  of water  vapor  outside  is  usually  very  low. You  usually  call  this  low  humidity,  right? But  in  tropical  places  that's  very  hot, you  can  hold  a  lot  more  water  vapor  with  it. Okay.  So  coming  back  to  our  TV  diagram. So,  again,  we  had  that  the  first  process that  I  showed  you  of  the  subcooled, saturated  and  superheated  for  one  pressure. A  lot  of  times  when  we  make  these  plots, we're  going  to  show  'em for  these  different  isobars, so  constant  pressures. And  you  see  as  we  increase  the  pressure, this  point  between  the  saturated  liquid  and the  saturated  vapor  start  to  get closer  until  we  reach a  critical  point,  right? And  so  there's  a  critical  point, and  if  you  were  to  go  above  this, you  don't  know  what  you  are  anymore. You  don't  know  if  you're  a  liquid. You  do  not  know  if  you're  a  vapor. You're  something  in  between.  We  call that  as  super  critical. Carbon  dioxide, maybe  the  most  commonly  used  one. I  don't  think  anyone  in  here  drinks decaffeinated  coffee, do  you?  You're  like,  too  young  for  that. So  that  is  a  fluid that's  used  actually  to  remove caffeine  from  coffee  beans, right?  It's  also  used. If  you've  ever  been  to  whole  foods  here, all  of  the  refrigeration  systems  and whole  foods  running  carbon dioxide  is  a  refrigerant, which  is,  like  interesting. So  Okay,  so  you  have  that  as  I  said  before. You  can  then  represent  this  on  a  curve. So  this  point,  you  know,  if the  saturation  lines, usually  it's  instructive  to represent  it  on  a  curve. So  here  you  see  the  saturated  liquid  line. Here  you  see  the  sap  saturated  vapor. This  is  the  mixed  region where  you'll  have  either, you  know,  liquid  or  more  vapor, depending  on  where  you are,  the  superheated  region, and  then  the  the compressed  liquid  region,  right? Again,  so  I  said  that  before, that's  your  critical  point. This  shows  you  a  bit  more  information than  just  the  liquids  and  the  vapors. You  can  also  show  the  solids. This  condition  here  is  what  we call  the  triple  line. Does  anyone  know  for  water  what the  triple  point  is? Okay,  that's  your  homework. Alright.  But  it's a  coexistence  between  all  the  phases. The  vapor,  the  liquid,  and  the  solid  can  all coexist  at  that  condition. And  yeah. And  the  point  is  that  for  most  substances. So  again,  this  is  the  PT  diagram, again, showing  you  solids,  vapors  and  liquids. Most  substances  follow  this  direction  here, or  when  you  increase  the  pressure from  a  specific  condition, you'll  eventually  go  from a  liquid  to  a  solid. The  one  substance  that  I know  of  that's  different  than  that  is  water, which  is  essential  for  the  ocean,  right? It  expands  upon  freezing  there. So  that's  the  only  one  that  I  know  of  where the  line  goes  in  that  direction. Namely  that  if  you  compress  it  more, you'll  actually  get  a  liquid  state,  right? I'll  bring  it  home  and then  we'll  get  the  example. In  the  19th  century, you  know, we  thermodynamics  had  a  lot  of  developments. There  was  a  gentleman  by  the  name  of  Maxwell. So  Maxwell's  equations,  if  you  took electrical  engineering  or  in your  physics  course  work, he  also  represented  everything  that  I  just described  there  on  a  three  D  surface. So  I  remember  we  talked  about  PV. We  had  VT.  You  could  also  add  the  PV,  VTTP. If  you  put  it  all  together,  you  could  draw a  three  dimensional  surface with  all  of  these, you  know,  phases  on  there. And  that's  the  point  of  thermo,  right? So  for  a  pure  substance,  right, one  goal  might  be  to  have a  mathematical  formula  that  tells  you, hey,  if  I  have  this,  you  know, PV  or  I  have  this  VT, or  if  I  have  this  PT  with,  you  know, some  fraction  of  knowing how  much  water  vapor  or liquids  there.  You  can  tell  me  everything. From  that,  okay?  And  the  formula that  we  use  for  that  to  tell you  what  we  call that  like  an  equation  of  state, right?  That's  kind  of  a  holy  grail. Um  The  bad  side with  this  is  that  there's  not really  a  simple  formula. I  mean,  if  you  looked  at  that, that's  not  going  to  be  something  that's going  to  be  straightforward  to  model. The  good  news  though  is  that compared  to  when  I  was  a  student, some  years  ago,  all  this  stuff can  be  done  electronically. So  I'll  show  you  the  easy  way  first. I'll  show  you  the  power  tool, then  I'll  show  you  the  hand  tool. And  then  I'm  going  to strongly  encourage  you  to use  the  power  tool  for  most  of  your  work. Yes,  please.  Jason  Jason,  yes. I'm  going  to  say  no,  because  the  slope of  that  is  positive,  right? Yeah.  Yeah.  That's  a  good  insight. Other  questions.  I'm  talking  too  much  today. I  want  to  get  to  get  to  the  example. All  right. Yeah.  So  again,  from  this,  if  you  know PT,  TV  and  PT, except  for  this  except  for the  liquid  vapor  region, you  know  everything  from  that. You're  going  to  be  able to  compute  your  energies, your  internal  energies,  enthalpies, entropies,  pressures,  specific  volumes, you  know  all  information,  okay? Um  So  I'll  give  you  a  question. This  is  what  I  sent  in  the  e  mail. Hopefully,  you  had  a  chance  to  open  this. But  in  this  problem, what  I'm  saying  is  I  have  water,  right? I  have  water  that's  at  200  Celsius in  this  pressure  here. Maybe  this  is  something  like,  you  know, a  boiler  or  whatever. And  you  want  to  know the  properties  of  that,  okay? So  in  the  code  that  I  sent  you, the  output  from  the from  the  electronic  database there  can  actually  be  used  to  draw,  right? The  PV  and  the  TV  diagrams. I  put  some  isotherms  and  isobars  on  there. So  the  one  that's  most  relevant, is  the  200  C  isotherm. And  I  didn't  draw  150, but  the  150  would  basically  be  be  there. And  you  know,  I  asked  some  questions about,  you  know,  what's  the  state  of  it? You  know, what's  the  internal  energy  and  all  of  that? Just  to  show  you  where  these  things  are. So  at  this  state  plotted  on  this  diagram, you  can  see  the  dot  that's  here. It's  kind  of,  like,  right  at  the  edge  of the  at  the  saturation  curve. When  you  see  it  presented  on the  TV  diagram  here, you  can  very  clearly  see  that  this  is an  vapor  in  a  vapor  state. And  I'm  presenting  it  to  you  in  this  way, because  I  think  it's  a  bit more  I've  lost  my  cursor. Pointer  options.  L  laser  pointers. So  if  you  went,  and  you  clicked  on  this, I'll  try  to  do  this  pretty quickly.  All  right. But  if  you  go  and  you  put  that  link  in, it'll  automatically  launch  into into  the  Berkeley  Jupiter  Hub. So  this  is  like  a  program  that  allows  you  to run  Python  code  without  having  to  install  it. You  can  open  up  the  notebooks. You  can  go  and  you  can  run  this. So  you  can  do  text. This  is  called  Markdown  format. You  can  write  text,  you  can  write  code. But  I  programmed  everything  here,  right? So  you  go  in.  I  define  the  temperatures. Please  use  dimensions  whenever you  code  like  this, so  T  one  is  in  C,  P  one  is  in  KPA. We  convert  this  to  MPA  and  Calvin. Right, Calvin  is  the  absolute  scale  of  temperature, which  I'm  sure  you  all know  from  your  reading  because  you  all read  all  the  chapters,  right?  Yes.  Okay. So  you  have  that  code  there. And  again,  we're  going  to  do  this digitally,  right?  So  you  go  in. The  way  that  you  do  it digitally  is  you're  going  to install  this  software,  the  IAP  WS. This  is  a  wonderful  organization. Bless  their  souls. They  did  all  the  hard  work  to write  the  formula  to produce  the  curve  that  I  showed  you  before. It  has  100  fitting  parameters. I  mean,  if  you  write  the  formula, like  extends  over  pages,  right? So  seriously,  thank  you  to  them. This  is  the  way  you  install  it. So  it's  as  simple  as  that,  it's  imported. You  can  import  it  then  as  this  command. And  the  only  thing  you need  to  do  then  is  you  can  say, IAP  W  97,  And  then  you  declare  this. Remember,  I  said,  it  could be  pressures  in  temperatures. It  could  be  pressures  in  volumes, it  could  be  temperatures  in  volumes. So  P  capital  P  is  equal  to  this, capital  t  equals  to  this. And  then  water  has  all  the  information. So  you  just  do  that.  And  you  have  everything. If  you  want  under  the  enter  P, you  water  dot  S.  LP, which  we'll  explore  soon  dot, specific  volume  dot  v  internal energy  dot  U,  and  so  on  and  so  forth. You  can  also  ask  it  like  Cech  EPT  style. What  are  you?  What's  your  state? But  unlike  Cech  EPT,  this  is  deterministic, and  it  we'll  tell  you  accurately  what  it  is. If  you  use  Chech  EPT, and  I  swear  this  is  true, C  KEPT,  for  its  equation  of state  only  really  understands ideal  gases,  right? So  if  you  go  in  and  you  ask  it, like,  to  solve  a  problem,  I  mean, this  shit  looks  like,  really,  like, smart,  but  it  makes  the  most,  like Common  error  of  thinking, which  is  to  assume  it  behaves  like  a  gas, and  water  and  a  lot  of  fluids don't  behave  like  a  gas. So  be  seriously  careful  with  that. Right?  Then  you  can  go  and  you  can  plot. Again,  all  of  this  is  just  showing you  the  different  ways  to  do  it. But,  I  plotted  that  state  just  like  I had  in  the  PowerPoint  for  the  TV, and  then  the  same  thing  for  the  PV. Okay.  So  that's  how  that's  done. And  again,  we'll  use  those  entrapmental P  internal  energy  terms  as  time  comes, it's  going  to  be  convenient. The  final  thing  I  want  to  comment on  is  as  I  kept  stressing  before, what  happens  when  you're  underneath  the  dome? This  is  what  we  call  under  the  dome. You're  in  the  mixture  region. You  need  to  know  what's  called  the  quality. I'll  define  this  in  a  second  now. But  you  need  to  know  the  quality. And  when  you're  a  saturated  vapor, when  you're  all  vapor, you're  a  one,  and  when  you're  all  liquid, you're  a  zero,  right? And  so  if  you  know  the  temperature and  you  know  the  quality, you  also  have  complete  information,  right? Because  you  could  you  know,  if  I  say,  okay, I  know  my  temperature,  right  that's  up  here. And  then  you  say,  okay,  I  know  the  right, I'm  on  this  at  this  point  in  the  temperature. And  then  by  definition, you  have  to  be  a  constant temperature  during  the  process. And  if  you  say, what's  the  fraction  that  I'm  a  vapor, you  know  for  sure  where  you  are  on  the  map. You  have  complete  information. So  you  can  do  that  here.  The  same  thing. So  I'm  saying  saturated  vapor, with  the  same  commands, temperature,  and  quality. And  again,  you  have  everything,  right? So  the  output  then  here,  as  I  know, in  the  case  of  the  problem  that we'll  do  at  the  end  here  today, that  my  specific  volume  is 3.4  meters  cube  per  kilogram,  right? I  don't  expect  you  to  absorb all  of  it  now,  but  practice  this. And  it  will  make  your  life  so much  easier  on  the  homework. And  if  you  don't  believe me  ask  Tomas,  the  reader, because  'cause  he  did  like  six  weeks of  homework  last  year,  and  he  was  like, Professor,  why  did  you  tell me  we  could  do  it  this  way? And  I  said,  I  did.  I  shared in  week  one,  but  he  didn't  read  it. So  that's  my  advertisement to  you  to  make  your  life  easier. Okay?  I'm  not  going to  te  questions  on  this  because  I really  want  to  move  to the  end  if  you  have  some  ask me  at  the  end,  right? And  that  link  should  work  for  everyone. So  if  you  clicked  on  that, you  should  be  able  to  launch, you  should  be  able  to  launch  that.  Okay. Yeah,  so  you  could  go  in,  as  I  said, before,  we  have  that  as  the  value. And  we  would  know  that this  internal  energy  also came  out  of  that  it's  super  easy. You  can  also  do  this  with  tables,  right? So  you  all  have  the  book. Again,  I  assume  you  have  the  book. If  you  go  to  the  end  of  your  book, you  have  nightmares  now  for my  undergraduate  studies, but  there's  34  34  tables, water,  refrigerants,  gases,  all  of  it. And  you  can  also  look  up  manually, everything  that  I  just  did  electronically, right? So  if  you  look  at  A  four, so  that's  the  one  that's  relevant for  the  problem  that's  going  to come  at  the  end. Well,  if  we  don't  have  time  today, we'll  do  it  on  Wednesday, but  it  would  give  you  this, you  know,  a  temperature. It  would  tell  you  the  saturated  pressure, and  then  you'd  have  the  specific volume  of  the  gas. You'd  have  the  specific  volume  of  the  liquid, and  so  on  and  so  forth  there. If  you  zoom  in,  if  you  zoom into  that  part  of  it,  again, if  it's  the  saturated  tables, you'd  either  have  temperature  first  and  then pressure  or pressure  first  and  then  temperature. And  then,  as  I  said, you're  going  to  have  then the  VF  and  V  G.  So that's  the  saturate  the  specific  volume of  the  saturated  liquid, the  specific  volume  of  the  saturated  vapor. You  can  ask  me, why  the  hell  would  you  write  F? If  it's  a  liquid?  And  then G  at  least  G,  you  could  see. It  looks  like  a  gas,  but  F  is  like  weird, right  is  a  liquid  and  a  gas  or  both  a  fluid. And  the  reason  is  because the  Germans  had  everything. So  that's  flucy  chit,  right? So  the  F  is  the  German  word. That's  a  German  word  for  liquid,  right. In  German,  GasGas. So  that's  it.  All  right. So  that's  what  you  have  here?  VG  and  your  VF. Sometimes  it's  convenient  to take  the  difference  of  them. So  VF  G  is  just  the  difference between  the  VG  and  the  VF. And  An  important  parameter we're  going  to  work  with  when  we start  to  boil  off  when we  start  to  boil  off  liquids  and stuff  is  what  we  call the  enthalpy  of  vaporization. So  the  difference  of  the  enthalpy  of the  gas  minus  minus the  enthalpy  of  the  liquid. You  experience  this  every  day  with  cooling, perspiration.  Why  do  you  perspire? Because  it  evaporates,  right? And  it  takes  a  tremendous  amount  of heat  to  evaporate  a  liquid. Does  anyone  know  how  much? Yes.  Yeah. Kelvin.  Yeah.  So  that's  what we  call  sensible  heat,  right? That's  when  you  transfer  heat  to  a  substance, and  it's  temperature  changes. But  I'm  talking  about a  thing  where  I  transfer  heat  into it  and  the  temperature  doesn't  change,  right? So  it's  2,200/gram  per  gram. That's  a  lot  of  energy,  right? That's  why  I'm  sweating  up  here.  All  right. So  these  are  the  things you're  going  to  see  with the  tables.  As  I  said  before, For  the  vapor  quality? Maybe  you're  given  a  problem  like  this. You  have  a  saturated  mixture  of  a  liquid  and a  vapor  at  this  temperature. So,  again,  you  go  to that  table  A  four,  you  see, I  have  a  temperature  of  85, and  you're  told  that  you  have  a  vapor  quality of  50%  0.5. So  half  half  liquid, half  vapor  on  a  mass  on  a  mass  basis. And  what  you  would  like to  know  is  that  what  is the  specific  volume  of that  liquid  vapor  mixture? X.  So  quality  is  by definition  equal  to  the  mass  of  the  vapor, divided  by  the  total  mass  of the  mass  of  the  vapor divided  by  mass  of  vapor  plus mass  of  liquid  there. Again,  this  is  what  it  would look  like  on  a  TV  diagram. So  we  said  right  the  85. That's  a  specific  volume  of the  liquid  when  it's  saturated, the  vapor  when  it's  saturated, and  your  point  here, B  is  somewhere  in  the  middle,  right? So  it's  basically  that  V average  minus  the  VF. And  this  is  pretty  cookie  cutter,  right? So  that  value  of  the  specific  volume  at b  is  equal  to  nothing more  than  basically  a  weighted  fraction. So  the  quality  times the  specific  volume  of  the  gas plus  one  minus  the  quality times  the  specific  volume  of  the  liquid. When  x  is  equal  to  one,  you are  the  gas  or  the  vapor. When  x  is  equal  to  zero, you  have  the  property of  the  saturated  liquid, and  you  have  a  linear  variation  in  between. Okay?  All  right.  It's  not  rocket  science, but  it's  important,  right?  So  that's  quality. And  again,  when  you  start  to  get  up to  the  critical  point, which  is  up  here,  right? At  that  point,  there's not  really  quality  anymore. You  can't  differentiate  between a  liquid  between  a  gas. You're  you're  into  the  grade  unknown at  what  we  call  supercritical  at  that  point. Another  interesting  fact  about  this  is that  the  higher  you go  up  with  the  temperature, the  less  is the  difference  between  the  enthalpies, right,  which  we'll think  about  later  too,  right? Maybe  that  matters. Um,  This  is  a  video? Yeah.  This  is  a  video. Okay. I'm  not  sure  what's  in  the  video,  though. Okay. So  we're  clicking  on  the  table. This  is  exciting. Um  Yeah,  so  we're  going  down  exactly. So  this  is  the  process  then  of  going and  doing  manually  what  I  said  before, so  that's  the  the  85. That  looks  terrible  on  here. I  don't  know.  Anyways,  yeah, you  would  go  to  there, you  would  look  up  these  values  and  that's where  they're  located.  You  have  it,  right? That's  the  specific  volume  of  the  liquid, specific  volume  of  the  gas. There's  our  formula,  substitute  in the  V  the  V  g  times  50%, the  VF,  times  the  one  -50%, and  then  you  end  up  with  that  value. And  just  to  like, double  check  yourself,  if  you  ever  do  that, and  you  have  this  value  like, less,  than  the  fluid  or  greater  than  the  gas. I  mean,  it's  just  wrong,  right? Like,  just  like, double  check  yourself  and  like, look  and  say,  Hey,  that,  you  know, maybe  I  like  added  or  subtracted  too  much, but  it  should  be  somewhere  in  between. And  I'm  also  not  going  to  make  it, like,  on  an  exam  or  anything  like  that. It's  like  not  my  life's  goal for  you  to  calculate  this. That's  like  ridiculous. I'm  not  going  to  waste  your  time. So  I'll  make  things  easy  in  terms  of, you  know,  trying  to  compute  this. I  don't  want  you  to  spend  time  on tables  and  calculating  like this  because  as  I  showed  you before,  this  is  trivial. You  can  do  it  in  a  notebook,  right? Yeah.  And  so  as  I  said,  so that  was  for  the  saturated  region. Again,  for  these  things, we  usually  are  dividing  by  regions. So  that  was  the saturated  liquid  vapor  region. The  next  important  region  is  the  superheated, as  I  mentioned  before. There's  tables  for  that. And  there's  also  tables then  for  the  compressed  liquid, which  is  then  on  this  side. If  you  want  to  look  up,  then,  again, manually,  the  tables  there for  the  superheated,  you  go  to  table  A  six. You  say  superheated.  Table  A  six. You  then  search  for the  pressure  that  you  have. They  usually  have  a  pressure  listed. That's  the  saturation  temperature  that corresponds  to  that  pressure. And  then,  of  course,  it's  super  heated, so  those  temperatures  are  going  to  be greater  than  the  saturated  temperature. So  then  you  look  for  it  there. Same  thing  for  the  compressed  liquid. So  you're  going  to  have  the  saturation pressure  or  the  pressure, and then  the  corresponding  saturated  temperature. And  then,  yeah,  you're  going  to have  various  then  temperatures, which  are  then  going  to  be  below  that,  right? They're  going  to  be  below  below below  that  value,  right? Cool.  I  would  love. I  would  really  love  to  do  this. Maybe  maybe  we  can  start  it. Maybe  we  can  start  this  with  the  discussion, and  then  I  can  leave  it  open, and  then  on  Wednesday, we  can  basically  bring  this  home  with  it, or  you  can  also  try  this  at At  home  with  it.  But  the  point  is  that  what  I would  like  you  to  look  at  is  this  question. So  you  have  a  container that's  50  kilograms  of saturated  liquid  water  at  t  equals 80  degrees  C.  And  the  first  question  is, what  point  on  the  TV  diagram corresponds  to  this  state,  okay? So  for  the  next  3  minutes  with  this, I  only  want  you  to  focus  on  part  one. I'll  open  up  the  other  ones if  you  want  to  do  it, but  let's  focus  on  0.1 and  see  if  we  can't  get  that  right. Are  there  any  questions  about  this  activity? Okay,  let's  go. Can  somebody tell  me  if  the  pole  works? Okay. Great. Okay. So  just  like  the  vapor  quality, we  have  a  full  spectrum  of  answers  with  it. I  think  the  one  I  like  most is  I  always  like  extremes. I  always  like  extreme  cases. So  does  any  group  care  to  comment  here on  why  they  selected  the  point  that  they  did? Yes,  please.  Name.  And  then. O  intersect. Okay. So  I  like  that.  I  like  that  we  intersected, but  here  you  have  two  lines and  two  intersections. Okay. Left  side. The  left  side. Okay.  And  why  do  you  pick  on  the  left  side? The  left  side  side. Okay.  Okay.  How  about another  group  C  to  comment? Yes,  please.  Yeah. Yeah.  And  so  how  much  liquid  or  how  much  gas did  you  think  that you  had  based  on  the  information  given? Okay. Did  anyone  else  have  a  different  answer? Yes,  please. Yeah. So  that's  the  key.  The  key  here. So  all  these  answers  are  very  good  to  start, but  the  key  to  nailing  down  where  you  are  on this  line  was  the  nice  answer  from  Mica. Mica,  with  his  description saying  that  with  the  quality  being  zero, it  means  there  that  you  have  no  vapor. You  have  liquid,  right? So  the  point  on  this  line  here  where  you could  be  anything  as  soon  as  you say  that  it's  an  X  equal  to  zero, you  are  on  the  liquid  there,  okay? And  so  with  that  excellent  description, I  would  like  to  close  this. Here  if  you  have  any  questions  come  up, otherwise,  see  you  all  on  Wednesday.  Hh
