Nine.  Okay.  Lecture  nine. All  right.  So  today  we're  going  to  talk about  gas  power  cycles. There's  an  important  moment in  this  class  where  like rubber  road.  You  know,  here. Okay.  So  after  today, you're  going  to  be  able  to  evaluate the  performance  of  a  gas  power  cycle, describe  or  develop some  simplifying  assumption that's  going  to  make  life  easier, and  we'll  solve  a problem  based  on  the  auto  cycle. And  if  we  have  time,  we'll  also  go  through the  diesel  cycle,  okay? Okay,  so  power  cycles. Classify  in  two  ways. The  first  is  what's  called  a  gas  cycle. Through  the  whole  cycle, the  fluid  is  a  gas, a  vapor  cycle,  um, is  a  process  where  the working  fluid  is  a  vapor, but  it  also  condenses,  okay? So  it  is  not  a  gas  the  whole  time,  right? There's  a  liquid. The  most  famous  one  of  this,  right? So  we  have  auto,  which  is  this  diesel, and  for  the  aero  people  in  the  room,  Brayton. Brayton  is  a  very  important  one  there. On  this  vapor  cycle, the  most  important  one  is  Rankin,  okay? This  is  how  we  make  most  of our  energy  globally,  is  that. Okay.  If  we  focus  just  on the  gas  power  cycle  examples, we  have  cycles  that  run  on  closed  systems, and  we  have  cycles  that run  on  control  volumes,  all  right? So  closed  system  means  piston  cylinders. So  all  those  piston examples  that  I  did  for  you, it  wasn't  just  for  your  health,  all  right? This  is  for,  you  know, these  applications  and  done. And  the  auto  cycle  and  the  diesel  cycle run  on  piston  cylinder  devices, which  we  can  do  energy analysis  on  from  the  closed  system. So  that's  Chapter  four  material. For  a  for  things  like  the  Brayton  cycle, which  is  a  steady  flow  device,  right, that  consists  of  compressors, heat  exchangers,  and  the  turbine. There  we  do  control  volume  analysis, all  right? And  we  will  apply  for  the  closed  system, right,  the  different  analyses  of the  different  states  of  this. And  for  this  one,  we'll  do  it for  the  different  components,  all  right? But  again,  those  fundamentals we  did  for,  you  know, Module  one  are  not  going  to  be  applied into  the  Module  two  here,  okay? So,  what  is  the  auto  cycle? The  auto  cycle  is an  idealized  cycle  for how  internal  combustion  engines  operate, specifically  ones  that  are  running  gasoline, right? So  gasoline  engines,  they  run on  what's  called  the  auto  cycle. Um,  There's  four  there's four  steps  in  the  process. The  first  is  that  you  take,  right, your  air  and  your  fuel  and you  compress  this,  okay? Right?  So  you  have  this  compression  process. Then  you  ignite  it, and  gasoline  burns  very  quickly,  okay? So  this  ignition  process  happens  so fast  that  we  consider that  as  an  isochoric  step, all  right?  Very  fast. Um,  you  have  an  expansion, right,  that  happens  after  that. And  then  you  have  exhaust  and  then  intake, and  you  start  again,  right? So  this  is  the  reality. So  the  reality  is  that  Professor  Suzi, you  told  me  that's  a  closed  system. It  looks  an  awful  lot like  things  are  coming  in  and  out. Yes.  If  we  want  to  analyze  this and  idealize  it  and make  it  more  straightforward  to  do, what  we  can  do  is  we  can  say  that this  compression  process  is  isotropic,  okay? The  heat  conditionion, instead  of  dealing  with combustion  and  saying,  Okay, that's  a  complicated  species and  enthalpy  of  combustion, that's  going  to  be  like, you  know,  Module  three. We'll  get  to  enthalpy  combustion. For  now,  We'll  say  that  most of  what's  in  there  is  actually  nitrogen. Nitrogen  doesn't  react. Not  very  much  anyways. And  so  this  fluid  is  mostly  air. Thermodynamically,  it's  air,  okay? And  so  we  can approximate  the  combustion  process by  a  heat  addition  heat  addition,  okay? Then  isotropic  expansion, and  then  isochoric  heat  removal, okay?  So  again,  the  same  thing. We  say,  right,  this  is mostly  nitrogen,  not  reactive. This  is  pretty  much  then  air,  and  most of  the  air  is  nitrogen  anyways. And  so  this  intake stroke  then  and  the refreshing  and  getting  us  back  to  the  start, we'll  idealize  them  as  a  cue  out,  all  right? This  is  what  the  reality  would  look like  on  a  PV  diagram. And  then  this  is  what  the  idealized one  is  there,  okay? There's  two  other  terms  that  are  here. So  it's  well, let  me  just  describe  it and  then  I'll  give  it  a  name. What's  important  in  something  like  this, a  device  like  this  is that  boundary  work  you're going  to  do,  all  right? That  PDV,  all  right? So  the  case  when  you  have  the  maximum  volume, that's  called  bottom  dead  center,  okay? This  is  when  this  thing  is  most  expanded. And  then  when  it's  most  compressed, that's  TDC  top  dead  center,  all  right? Does  that  really  matter? I  don't  know,  but  it's  terminology. So  if  you're,  you  know, like  cars,  then  that's  what  that  means. But  there  is  a  meaning  in  thermal because  then,  essentially, by  knowing  those  two,  you  know, volumes  there, right,  you  can  say  something  about  the  work. There's  a  final  term  that's  not  listed  here, which  is  that  if  I  have  that  maximum  volume, which  happens  at  the  bottom  dead  center and  the  minimum  volume, which  happens  at  the  top  dead  center, the  W  net  that  happens  out of  this  device  right, is  equal  to  the  difference in  those  volumes  times some  mean  effective  pressure  MEP,  okay? Again,  this  is  informational. You  can  read  the  book,  but  that's the  meaning  that's  the  meaning  of  that. All  right.  Cool.  So  again, if  we  come  back  to  analyzing  the  ideal  cycle. So  each  of  those  processes,  again, just  restating  it  now  showing  it here  is  a  TS  diagram. This  process  one  to  two  is an  isotropic  compression, two  to  three  constant  volume  heat  addition, three  to  four  isentropic  expansion, and  four  to  one  constant volume  isochoric  heat  heat  rejection,  right? So  what  does  it  mean  then  if  I  have  isotropic compression  and  isotropic  expansion, what  can  you  say  about  that  process? Presley.  It's  reversible  and  what  else? Is.  Internally  reversible. And  if  there's  no  change  in entropy,  what  else  is  not  happening,  okay? A.  Adiabatic  Adiabatic  and reversible  is  what  we're talking  about  here,  right? For  the  auto.  For  the  auto  cycle. Okay,  so  let's  get  into  it. I'm  going  to  derive.  So  in this  example,  I'll  take  you  through. I  find  in  this  case,  to  do  the  math, pairing  the  math  and  the  derivation  of the  thermal  efficiency  is  done best  when  I  actually solve  a  problem  here,  all  right? So  in  this  case,  what  you're  given  is an  ideal  a  cycle  that has  a  compression  ratio  of  seven. So  this  compression  ratio,  what  is  that? The  compression  ratio  is  the  ratio of  the  volume  at  state  one, okay,  divided  by  the  volume  at  state  two. So  the  state  before  I  compress, All  right,  and  the  state  after  I  compress. So  the  state  before  it compresses  at  state  one, so  you  have  volume  one. And  when  you  compress, you  go  to  the  volume  two. And  so  R  is  then the  ratio  of  those  two  things. It's  going  to  be  greater  than  one, right,  because  you're  compressing. So  in  our  case,  this  is  equal to  seven.  All  right. At  the  beginning  of  the  compression  process, we  have  this,  right? We're  letting  in,  you  know,  pretty  much  air at  state  one,  from  atmospheric  conditions. So  we  have  P  one,  which  is  equal  to 90  kpa  and  T  one, which  is  equal  to  27  degrees  Celsius. And  so  what  it  means, if  this  is  a  pure  substance, right, you'll  have  complete  information,  right? If  you  decide  to  go  that  route. We're  also  given  what  the volume  is  at  state  one, and  we're  told  that  that's  0.004  meter  cubes. So  four  liters,  right?  All  right. The  T  max.  So  additional  information that  we're  given.  This  is  state  one. The  T  max  that  we're  given is  that  we  have  one, one,  two,  seven  degrees  C,  do. Yeah.  And  what  we're  told  to  do is  to  assume  a  number  of  things. But  constant  CP  and  CV  is  one  of  them. And  so  we  want  to  determine. So  we're  going  to determine  Q out  is  the  first  thing. W  net  out, the  thermal  efficiency  of this  engine  and  the  mean  effective  pressure. All  right.  So  we can  begin  with  Yeah. Calling  that  from  step  one, we're  going  to  compress. This  is  basically  from  state one  to  state  two. We're  going  to  do  a  compression  process  here. That's  good.  For  this,  we  have  isotropic. If  we  assume  that  this  is  an  ideal if  we  assume  that  this  is  an  ideal  gas, what  we  can  rely  on  is basically  our  TDS  relations that  we  have  here. If  I  say  that  I  have  dS  is  equal  to  CV, dt  divided  by  T  plus  specific  gas  constant, um,  dv  divided  by  V,  right? And  I  say  it's  isomropic? This  is  going  to  be  to  zero. And  so  what  we'll  have  is  a  negative  CV, dt  divided  by  T  is  equal  to  R, dv  by  V.  We can  put  this  to  the  other  side,  okay? Negative,  um,  a  negative  there. All  right?  We  can  integrate. If  we  treat  this  as  a  constant, right,  we  can  pull  that  out  of  the  integral. And  so  what  you'll  have  here  is  then a  natural  log  of  T  two divided  by  T  one  is  equal to  the  negative  R  CV, natural  log  of  V  two  divided  by  a little  V  two  divided  by  little  V  one  there. This  is  a  natural  log. I  can  put  this  up  to  the  exponent. I  have  a  natural  log of  little  V  two  divided  by little  V  one  to  the  power  of negative  R  divided  by  CV. If  I  take  the  exponential  of  both  sides. What  I  can  have  is  then  T two  divided  by  T  one, is  equal  to  little  V  two  divided  by little  V  one  to  the  negative  R  by  CV. What  can  we  recall?  How  can  I relate  R  to  CPs  and  CVs? You  can  remember  that  R  is equal  to  Cp  minus  CV. You  can  also  remember  that  Kappa  is equal  to  Cp  divided  by  CV. And  so  if  you  put  that  in  there, what  you  can  say  is  that  T two  is  equal  to  T  one,  all  right? We  can  get  rid  of  the  negative, so  we  can  flip  that  and  write  V  one  by  V  two. Cp  minus  CV  over  CV  is  nothing but  kappa  minus  or let  me  think  about  this  for  a  second. So  it  will  be  cp  minus  CV, so  that'd  be  Kappa  minus  one  there. All  right.  Does  this  look  familiar? We  related  properties,  when  we  treated ideal  gas,  our  TDS  relations. We  took  our  TDS  relations. We  wanted  to  know  how  we  went  from one  state  to  another  one,  okay? And  a  nice  way  to  do  that  is we  treat  it  as  an  isotropic  process. So  we  set  that  ds  to  zero. And  with  that,  we're  able  to relate  things  like  temperature  changes to  pressure  changes  or temperature  changes  to  volume  changes. That's  why  we  did  this,  okay? Because  now  you  can  say, I  know  my  initial  temperature. I  know  the  ratio, my  volume,  okay,  that's  there. So  this  what  did  I  say? I  said  R  is  equal  to  what? V  one  divided  by  V  two, This  is  a  closed  system,  no  mass  in  or  out. So  it's  fair  for  me  to  write  or  this is  within  my  rights  to  write  N,  right? Little  V  one,  N,  little  V  two. There's  no  mass  in  or  out. And  so  that  R  is  little  V  one divided  by  little  V  two,  right? So  this  is  T  one  times R  to  the  kappa  minus  one. So  by  knowing  this  compression  ratio, by  knowing  the  adiabatic  index and  my  initial  temperature  in  Kelvin, I  can  determine  my  temperature at  state  two,  all  right? Good.  All  right. Whew.  All  right. Cool.  So  we've  done, you  know,  and  so  for  this,  I  don't  have  to do  I'm  not  doing an  energy  analysis  here,  right? I'm  going  with,  you  know, assuming  this  is  ideal  gas  and treating  it  as  isotropic. Let's  go  now  to  two  to  three. So  states,  two. All  right,  let's  see.  It  was compressed  like  this.  So  I'm  here. This  is  two  to  three  is  isochoric, and  I'm  putting  some  Q  in. I'm  putting  Q  in,  all  right? For  this,  I  need  to  do an  energy  analysis,  all  right? I'll  draw  my  control  volume  here.  Okay. And  I'm  going  to  write  my  first  law. So  my  first  law  applied  to  a  closed  system is  Delta  E  is  equal  to  what? E  in  minus  E  out. Now  it's  time  for  our  second  assumption. I'm  going  to  say  that  inside  of  that, what  assumption  am  I  going  to  make about  the  energy  the  change in  the  energy  that  control  volume? What  are  ways  that  it  can  store  energy? Internal  and  what  else? Name.  Say  it  again. Okay.  And  your  answer  volume. There  is  no  volume,  right? It's  the  isochork  process. Energy.  That's  it,  right? So  what  you  have  here  is  Delta  U  plus Delta  K  plus  Delta  P is  equal  to  the  ways  that  I  can  transfer  in. What  are  ways  that  I  can  transfer  energy  into this  control  volume  for  a closed  system  for  400? He  didn't  work,  right? So  I  have  W  plus  Q  in minus  W  plus  Q  out,  right? It's  an  isochrk  process. What  do  we  think  happens  to  the  work  terms? Adios.  All  right. So  we  don't  have  work  done  here. This  is  a  heat  transfer  in  process. I  don't  have  any  I  don't  have  any  heat  out. I'm  going  to  write  down on  my  sheet  of  paper  that  I  am neglecting  changes in  kinetic  and  potential  energy. And  so  the  change  in the  internal  energy  here  is equal  to  Q  in,  okay? Good.  Now,  we  assume this  is  an  ideal  gas,  all  right? How  do  I  relate  changes  in internal  energy  to temperature  for  an  ideal  gas? Right?  MCV  Delta  T,  okay? I'm  going  to  assume  I  assume constant  specific  heats,  too. Over  these  temperature  changes, I'm  not  going  to  have  a  huge  variation. And  we'll  check  ourselves  on  that. At  the  end  of  this,  I'll  show  you the  error  associated  with  treating  this as  a  constant  instead  of  getting exact  property  values  of internal  energy  because  you could  also  do  that,  right? You  could  go  in  and  say,  Well, I'm  going  to  do  this.  I'll  know  the  mass. I'll  look  up  my  internal  energy  at  state  two, and  I'll  look  up  my  specific internal  energy  at  state  one. What  you'll  see  is  at  the  end  of  this, the  error  is  about  5%  by assuming  that  this  value was  taken  at  state  one, so  basically  room  temperature. All  right,  so  my  delta  U  here. Let's  be  precise  with  this. So  U,  um,  sorry, this  is  U  three  minus  U  two. So  U  three  minus  U  two  is equal  to  N  cv  T  three  minus  T  two. Okay,  we  know  T  two. We  just  determined  it there  through  that  process. T  three,  what  do  we  think  T  three is  based  on  the  problem  information? So  this  is  right, State  three  is  after  combustion. Is  this  going  to  be  hot  or  cold?  Kai? Is  it  going  to  be  equal  to T  max?  That's  right. T  max,  all  right?  There's  your  T  max  there. And  in  this  case,  our  T  max, I  wrote  as  1127. One,  one,  two, seven  degrees  Celsius.  All  right. So  with  this,  I  know my  heat  addition,  which  is  good,  okay? By  knowing  how  much  heat, that  I'm  adding,  I am  halfway  to  being able  to  determine  my  network. Why?  Because  network  out is  equal  to  net  heat  in. So  by  determining  Q out  and  Q  in,  you  know  that. That's  much  more  convenient,  in  my  opinion, doing  it  this  than  getting  into,  you  know, into  the  weeds  with  work  transfer,  okay? Okay?  You  could  do  it.  What  did we  say  about  the  work  transfer  process? It's  isentropic,  which  means  adiabatic. Do  I  have  relations  for pressure  and  volume  to  do  a  PDV? You  do,  okay?  You  have an  adiabatic  expansion. Now  it's  coming  back. This  is  useful,  all  right?  Good. All  right,  so  we're  good  with  this  one. So  we  know  the  T  three. What  I  would  like  to  do  now  I've run  out  of  space.  What  can  I  kill? I'll  kill  this.  Okay. Let's  I'll  keep  that  there. I'll  move  to  the  middle  board. I'll  block  that  out. Let's  go  to  the  middle  board. Can  erase  this? Okay.  All  right. And  now  we're  going  3-4,  right? Three  to  four,  and  it's  expansion. So  I  start  off  here  at  this. Actually,  I  kind  of drew  it  upside  down,  right? So  this  is  top  dead  center. Yeah.  Okay.  Anyways,  it's  going to  move  out  here  and expand  like  that,  all  right?  Okay. And  remember,  in  this  process, this  is  an  adiabatic  and  reversible  process. So  what  you  can  hazard a  guess  is  that  we'll  end  up using  our  TDS  relations  again,  right? So  ds  is  CV, dt  divided  by  T  plus  R, dv  by  V  there. This  is  gone,  right,  because  it's  isentropic. And  so  here,  we'll  have  CV, dt  divided  by  T  is  equal  to  the  negative  of R  dv  divided  by  V.  All  right, I  can  move  this  to  the  other  side, CV  I  can  integrate. I  can  treat  these  as like  a  constant  there,  right? And  so  what  we'll  have  here  is the  natural  log  of  T four  divided  by  T three  is  equal  to  negative  R  by  CV, natural  log  of  V  four, little  V  four  divided  by little  V  three,  right? The  same  drill.  We  can make  this  an  exponent,  right? So  I  can  write  negative  R  by  CV  here. Move  that  up,  takes the  exponential  of  both  sides. All  right. And  we  have  that.  Now,  we  have  to  remember. So  here  at  state  four, state  three  from  state two  to  state  three  was  isochoric. So  V  two  is  equal  to  V  three,  okay? And  V  four  to V  one  is  isochoric  heat  removal. And  what  that  means  is  that  it's  going to  be  equal  to  V  one. And  so  what  we  can  do  is  we  can write  swap  this  out, and  we  can  say  that  it's  V  one divided  by  V  two, And  we  can  remember then  our  definitions  for  this. This  is  going  to  be  in  the  end, we  have  a  negative  sign  here. So  basically,  I'll  leave  it  like  this, negative  R  by  CV, and  then  we'll  clean  that  up  in  a  second. The  negative  sign,  we  can  flip  this. So  if  I  do  the  negative  sign, that's  V  two  divided  by  V  one, R  by  CV,  and  this  R by  CV  is  R  is  Cp  minus  CV. So  this  will  be  V  two  by  V one  to  the  Kappa  minus  one. All  right.  We'd  prefer  if this  was  then  put  into  the  compression  ratio. So  remember,  state  two is  more  compressed  than  state  one. And  so  what  this  will look  like  it  will  be  one over  R  to  the  Kappa minus  one  will  be  T  four  divided  by  T  three, which  essentially  just  means  that  T four  is  equal  to  T  three  to  the  one  over  R, which  is  the  compression  ratio, Kappa  minus  one,  right? So  now  I've  got,  State  one  was  given. State  two  I  got  from  TDS  relations. Temperature  at  state  three was  given  as  the  maximum  temperature. And  now  assuming  isotropic  expansion and  using  TDS  relations, I  now  have  T  four. And  the  final  one  that  I  want  to  do  is this  isochoric  heat  removal. So  for  that,  I'll  move  back to  the  left  hand  side. Okay.  And  now  we're  going  four  to  one. Four  to  one,  and  this  is  the  expanded  state. So  this  is  the  expanded  state, and  now  I  have  Q  out, and  my  control  volume  looks like  this.  All  right. So  again, first  law  applied  to  a  closed  system. The  change  in  the  energy  of the  control  volume  in here  is  equal  to the  energy  that  enters  minus  what  leaves. The  change  in  energy of  the  control  volume  can be  changes  in  internal  energy, kinetic  or  potential. We  neglect  changes  in kinetic  and  potential  energy. This  is  an  isochoric  process, so  we  don't  have  work  transfer. It's  a  cooling  process,  so  I  don't  have  Q  in, but  I  do  have  Q. Q  out.  All  right. So  Delta  U  is  equal  to  Q  Cue  out. Cue  out  here.  All  right. This  is  going  to  be  from  state four  to  state  one. All  right.  All  right. And  then  what  I'm  going  to  have  here is  that  the  change in  the  internal  energy  from state  four  to  state  one  is equal  to  the  mass  inside the  piston  cylinder  times  the CV  times  T  four  minus  T  one, where  T  four  is  warmer  than  T  one,  right? It's  a  cooling  process. And  then  we  can  do  it  that  way. And  this  is,  if  we  were treating  this  as  an  ideal  gas  assumption. If  you  don't  want  to  make the  ideal  gas  assumption, knock  your  socks  off, then  you  got  to  determine  the  internal  energy at  state  four  and the  internal  energy  at  state  one. Okay?  So  now  with  this,  right,  I  know, I  have  formulas  for  my  Q  in  and  my  Q  out. So  Qn,  Q  in  was  equal  to  M,  CV, T  three  minus  T  two, my  Q  out  was  equal  to  the  mass, CV,  T  four  minus  T  one,  okay? Let  Center  here. Okay.  So  W  net is  equal  to  Q  in  minus  Q  out. Remember  this  for  a  cycle  is  a  cycle  here. For  a  cycle,  the  net  work  out. Net  work  out  is  equal  to  the  net  heat  in. So  the  Q  minus  the  Q  out. And  so  we  can  write  CV  The  N is  three  minus  T  two, and  the  out  is  four  minus  T  one. All  right.  Our  efficiency, so  the  efficiency  then  of the  cycle  of  any  thermal  engine is  the  W  net  divided  by  Qn. And  so  my  W  net  then  is  Cv  times  T three  minus  two  minus  T  four  minus  T  one, and  my  Qn  is  Cv  times  T  three  minus  T  two. All  right.  Ms  are  gone.  This  is  gone. And  so  what  you  can  do  is  you  can rewrite  this  as  one minus  T  four  minus  T  one, T  three  minus  T  two, and  then  you  can  be  a little  bit  fancy  with  this. So  right  now,  it's  in temperatures,  which  is  fine, but  we'd  prefer  to  have this  as  a  function  of  R, the  compression  ratio and  the  adiabatic  index, which  we  are  allowed  to  do  because we're  treating  this  as  an  ideal  gas, and  we  use  the  TDS  relations, where  we  can  relay  basically  ratios of  temperatures  to  each  other. So  for  this,  you  can  do  one  minus T  one  times  T  four  by  T one  minus  one  divided  by  T two  times  T  three  by  T  two  minus  one. Okay.  Let's  think  for a  second.  Think  for  a  second. So  if  we  recall the  TDS  relations  that  we  had  here. So  we  said  that  can  this  be  seen  here. Let  me  blow  it  up  Foam I  have  one  TDS  relation. So  here  I  have  T  four  by  T three  is  equal  to  one by  R  to  the  Kappa  minus  one. All  right.  I  had  the  other  one, which  was  then  what  T  two  is  equal  to  T one  times  R  to  the  kappa  minus  one. So  if  I  rewrote  this, I  could  put  it  as  T  one  by  T two  is  equal  to  one  over  R  Kappa  minus  one. This  is  one  formula, this  is  another.  Means  they're  equal. The  ratio  then  of  T  four  by  T three  is  equal  to  T  one  by  T  two, T  one,  what's  wrong? Is  there  a  question?  Okay. Yeah, so  these  things  are  related  to  each  other. And  so  what  you  can  have  in the  end  is  if  you  put  through the  whole  derivation  on  the  substitution, what  you'll  end  up  with  is  the  following. So  you  can,  as usual,  follow  it  all  the  way  to  the  end. But  if  you  put  through  that  substitution, what  you'll  end  up  with  then  is  an  Ea, which  is  equal  to  one  minus  one  over  R, the  compression  ratio  to the  Kappa  minus  one,  okay? And  that's  interesting  because all  I  need  to  know  for  this  problem  to say  what  the  thermal  efficiency is  of  this  auto  cycle is  how  much  do  I  squeeze  it? How  much  do  I  compress  it? And  what  is  the  adiabatic index  of  my  substance, right,  which  in  this  case  is  air,  all  right? Cool.  All  right. So  if  you  go  through  and  you  substitute any  substitute  values  for  this, I'll  spare  you  the  details. But  he  rejected  here  for this  case  is  then  one  kilojoule, that's  your  network.  That's  the  efficiency. And  for  the  mean  effective  pressure, all  you  do  is  you  take this  network  and  you make  it  equal  to  the  MEP, you  make  it  equal  to  the  network out  that  I  had  there. So  your  network  out. Is  equal  to  the  max  volume, which  is  at  state  one  minus  the  mint  volume, which  is  at  state  two  times the  mean  effective  pressure. So  you  divide  that  out  and  you'll  end up  with  the  value,  okay? You  can  compare  this  with the  property  tables,  right? So  I  mentioned  here  for  Right, the  heat  additions  and  the  heat  removals, you  can  work  with,  right, the  specific  internal  energies. How  do  you  get  to the  specific  internal  energies  there? 1-2.  It's  isotropic. So  I  know  my  initial  state,  okay? I  know  how  much  I'm  compressing it  so  I  know  my  specific  volume, and  I  know  that  the  entropy  at  state two  is  equal  to  the  entropy  at  state  one. I've  got  two,  okay? 2-3  now  that  I  know  two, again,  two  to  three  is  an  isochoric  process. So  specific  volume  at  state  three is  equal  to  the  specific  volume  at  state  two. Good.  So  I  know the  specific  volume  is  state  three, and  another  temperature  at  state  three, because  it  was  the  maximum  temperature. Good.  Now,  when  I  go  through the  expansion  process  that's  isentropic, S  four  is  equal  to  S  one. So  that's  good. And  the  specific  volume at  state  four  is  equal  to the  specific  volume  at  state  one because  it's  isochoric. So  you  can  round  the  loop  going  that  way. That's  also  perfectly  acceptable. And  if  you  do  this  alternative solution,  compute  the  properties, you  know,  call  in  the  internal  energies from  Pi  killer  that  way. Um,  what  you'll  get  is an  efficiency  that's  50.57  versus  54. So  if  you  want  to  put  that  into,  like, error,  the  error  is  about  7%. The  take  home  message  too long  didn't  read  is  that  you  can  write this  and  have  an  error  that's less  than  10%  based  on two  things.  Pretty  convenient. Alright?  Um,  yeah. And  this  is  then  how  it looks  like  in  the  diagram. Just  to  remind  you  all  now, this  is  getting  very  important. So  in  PICOor  until  now, we've  worked  with  states,  right? So  we've  used  the  state  class. From  here  on  out,  process is  going  to  be  important,  right? States,  I  expect.  You  should  be able  to  do  that  stuff  in  your  sleep. Yeah,  in  this  notebook,  you  can  pull,  right? This  is  on  the  slides. But  to  do  that,  what  you'll do  is  you'll  define  your  state, state  one,  state  two,  all  right? That's  one  part  of  a  process, two  to  three,  three  to  four,  four  to  one. There's  your  process,  and  then  you  can make  plots.  You  p  dot. PR,  let's  say,  is then  the  object  I've  defined. If  I  go  dot  plot  PV, I  get  a  PV  diagram,  Ts, I  get  a  TS  diagram, and  that's  what  that  looks  like. If  states  are  very  close  together, then  obviously  they  overlap, just  like  being  in  a  crowded  restaurant, you'll  be  on  top  of  someone. It  can  happen  here. Sometimes  you'll  know  differences. The  book  is  a  little  bit,  um, uh,  like  dolly  in the  sense  that  it doesn't  give  it  to  you  exactly. It  gives  you,  what, you  know,  the  meaning  of  it. All  right?  Now,  what  I  mean  to  say  is  that, like,  this  is  exact. So  sometimes  you'll  end  up  with states  that  you  really can't  see  the  difference. If  I  take  an  incompressible  substance and  I  apply  a  Delta  P  to  that, there's  not  going  to  be  much  change,  right? Those  things  are  going  to  overlap. You'll  see  that  when  we  get into  the  vapor  cycle. The  book,  on  the  other  hand, exaggerates,  right? Big  differences  between  those  points because  they  want  to  drive home  the  message  of, you  know, that  something's  happening  there,  right? But  do  this.  Get  comfortable  with  this. A  very  important  part  of  this  class  when  you leave  is  that  you  can  graph  like  that. Thermo  is drawing  boundaries  and  graphing,  right? And  if  you  can  represent  these  things graphically,  you  really  know  your  stuff. And  this  part  of  it  makes  it  I  can't  tell you  how  much  like, how  many  lines  of  code,  I used  to  have  to  write  to  do  that. Like,  the  fact  that  you  can  do  this, you  know,  thank  you, Prossor  Frank  Locke  for  doing  this  for  us, that  you  can  do  this  in such  a  straightforward  way. It  is  also  not  trivial. It  is  like  graph  theory. So,  you  might  look  at  a  plot and  say,  I  could  be  a  little  bit  better. My  response  to  you  is,  then  tell  me  how. I  will  welcome  that,  okay? But  it  is  not  trivial to  do  that  there,  alright? I  don't  know  why  you  chose  the  colors  either, which  was  like  cowbo  and  gold,  but,  you  know, maybe  gold  doesn't  render  very  well  on  that. Okay.  Are  there  questions  about  this? So  again,  with  anything  like  this, when  we  deal  with  the  ideal  gas,  right, there's  two  paths  you can  always  take  to  analyzing  it. One  which  is  determining  properties  directly. Great.  And  the  other  one  is  ideal  gas  there. The  point  on  the  ideal  gas  is  we can  use  TDS  relations  to deal  with  these  expansion  and compression  processes. Good. And  for  heat  additions  and  removals, if  it's  an  isochoric  process, we  model  those  as  CVDTs. If  you  use  Pi  Kilo, you  wouldn't  have  to  do  that. You  would  just  go  and do  either  the  difference in  the  internal  energy  for  those, all  right.  Any  questions? Are  you  ready  for  diesel? So  diesel  was  a  rational  engine,  okay? Professor,  I  think  it is  it  Munich  to  you  Munich? I  think  he  was  in  Munich. But  his  goal  out  of  that  was  basically  to develop  a  rational  design for  an  engine,  right? So  let's  go  through  it. All  right.  And  they're  basically the  same  thing  except  for  one  difference, except  for  one  difference. Okay,  well,  hold  on. Let's  say  one  thing  before  I  dive  into  that. Okay.  So  here  what  I'm  showing  you. So  from  the  formula  that  I  mentioned, so  this  efficiency,  if  I want  to  make  it  very  large,  what  should  I  do? Squeeze  the  hell  out  of  it,  right? Basically,  get  the  maximum compression  that  I  can  there, and  you'll  get  to a  very  high  efficiency,  right? There's  limits  to  it,  right? You're  never  going  to  be  Carne. But  if  you  stay  within  what  you have,  you  can  get  some  pretty  good  ones. So  what  you  should  do,  then,  as  an  engineer, let's  say  you  live  outside  Detroit, you  know,  there,  you're  working for  Ford.  Good  job. Go  in  and  say,  Hey, I  want  to  have  a  very,  you  know, large  compression  ratio. What's  going  to  happen  to a  gasoline  engine  if you  start  to  make  this  very  large? Does  anyone  know?  Loud.  Here.  Say  it  again. And  what  do  we  call  that? Knock.  Basically,  it's going  to  knock,  you  know,  not  like  this. It's  going  to  detonate before  the  spark  plug  triggers  it.  All  right? So  that's  what  sets  the  limit. Most  of  them  have  this  kind  of  values. And  so  if  you  look  at  that,  then the  theoretical  efficiency, what  sets  you  then  for the  constraints  we  have is  somewhere  in  the  neighborhood of  50%  to  60%. But  boy,  it  would  be  nice  if  you  get to  higher  compression  ratios. And  that's  what  diesel  is. So  a  diesel  engine  doesn't  have  a  spark  plug. The  ignition  is  all  about compressing  the  shit  out  of  it, and  then  that  triggers  combustion,  ar? The  second  thing  about  a  diesel  is  that the  combustion  process  is  not  instantaneous. It  is  not  instantaneous. This  happens  over  an  amount  of  time. It  means  that  it's  not  what? So  what  was  the  combustion  process  in the  auto  cycle?  What  did  we  treat  that  as? Constant  volume  or  constant  pressure? Constant  volume,  isochoric. If  something  burns  longer, what  would  you  expect then  that  combustion  process or  that  process  would be  isochoric  or  isobaric. Isobaric,  okay?  So  that's  the  difference. So  if  you  look  on  a  PV  diagram at  a  diesel  cycle, right,  one  to  two  is  this  compression,  right? So  this  isentropic  compression. Two  to  three  is  the  heat  addition  here. I  But  that's  constant  pressure  now. It's  not  constant  volume. Constant  volume  would  be going  vertical,  right,  like  we  did  before, but  two  to  three,  it's  an  isobaric, right?  That's  how  we  treat  it. Three  to  four,  isotropic, which  means  here,  adiabatic,  right? That's  an  adiabatic  line, and  then  four  to  one. The  cooling  off  of  it,  the  heat  transfer out  is  still  iso  cork,  though. That  is  still  considered  rapid,  right? So  the  only  difference  between  the  auto  and the  diesel  is  this  process  of  two  to  three. Let  me All  right. So  let's  come  back  to  this. So  we  can  take  care  of  that. We'll  have  this  RC. Let's  stay  one.  We'll  have  to  see  volume. We'll  have  to  see  this. We'll  have  to  see  what  we  determine, and  there's  no  max. Okay.  Um  So  the  one  difference  is  this, the  two  to  three,  and  that's  a  heat  addition. As  a  result  of  this,  we  have  to somehow  describe  that  in  the  problem,  okay? And  the  way  that  you  do  this  is  you  say, not  only  do  I  have  that  compression  ratio, so  one  to  two  in  compression, but  I  have  another  ratio  of  volumes, which  is  the  volume  after  combustion divided  by  the  volume  before  combustion. And  this  is  called a  cutoff  ratio  cutoff  ratio. So  it's  RC,  right? Not  a  race  car.  Okay,  RC,  right? V  three  by  V  two. The  analysis  is  the  same,  though. So  we  treat  this  as  an  ideal  gas. So  we'll  treat  it  as  an  ideal  gas  there. That's  one. Expansion  and  compression  processes are  still  isotropic. So  all  the  stuff  that  I  did  before,  right? So  when  I,  T  two  is  equal  to  T  one times  V  one  by right  V  two  to  the  Kappa  minus  one,  right? So  this  is  right  V  one  by  V  two, so  that  should  increase  if  that's  good. This  was  R,  right? That's  the  definition  of  R.  That's  fine. From  T  four  being  to  T  three. So  V  four  is  down  here. Here  is  V  one, also  from  V  three,  sorry, to  the  the  Kappa  minus  one. This  is  no  longer. This  is  basically  no  longer that  same  ratio  that  we  had  before. What's  the  reasoning? So  when  I  go  from  V  one, Let's  say  V  one  is  equal  to  V  two  times  times R.  V  three  is  equal  to  V  two  times  RC. So  that's  the  cutoff  ratio. And  so  if  I  want  to  make that  substitution,  right,  that's  V. If  I  want  to  make  that  substitution, this  will  then  be  T  three times  V  two  times  RC. And  for  V  four,  V four  is  still  equal  to  what? If  I'm  returning  back,  if  I  have isochoric  cooling,  right  at  the  end  of  it, so  four  to  one  based  on  that  plot, what  would  you  say  that  V  one is  relative  to  V  four? It's  the  same,  okay? So  you  have  this. And  so  what  you'll  have  then here  is  that,  okay? And  that's  no  longer,  right? It's  no  longer  just,  you  know, one  over  R  here,  right? You  have  an  RC  with  an  R  that  comes  in. And  that's  it,  right? Pretty  much  everything  else is  the  same  except  for,  right,  the  QN. So  what  is  the  Q  in  for an  ideal  gas  for  an  isobaric  process? All  right.  Maybe  too  fast.  All  right. So  if  I  go  from, this  is  two  to  32  to  three, which  is  my  heat  addition. My  heat  addition,  I'm  going  to draw  control  volume  like  that. And  I  expand  some  amount  it  happens, and  the  pressure  P  two  is  equal  to  P  three. Okay?  So  I  have Qn  And  what  else  do  I  have  happening? What  other  energy  exchange  am  I having  for  my  control  volume  here? Work  Out,  right? So  I  have  W  out. So  if  I  write  the  first  law, neglecting  changes  in Kineticut  potential  energy, Delta  U  is  then  equal  to Q  in  because  there's  no  Q  out minus  W  out  because  there's no  W  in  Q  in  minus. So  it's  an  isoeric  process. What  is  the  formula going  to  be  for  the  workout? Right?  V  three  divided  by  V  two, can  move  that  to  the  other  side,  right? So  I'm  going  to  my  Delta  U, which  is  U  three  plus  p2v3 minus  two  plus  p2v2  is  equal  to  Qn. What  is  this?  Not  everyone  at  once  here. Enthalpy. Enthalpy,  right?  This  is  your  H three  minus  H  two  is  equal  to  Q  in. Of  course,  you  can  write  this  as, since  it's  a  closed  system, no  energy,  no  mass  in  or  out. Little  H  three  minus  little  H two  is  equal  to  Q  in. You  could  pillow  that  and  get  it. Or  what  approximation  can I  make  because  this  is  an  ideal  guess? That's  it.  Cp  Delta  T.  Cp  T three  minus  T  two  is  equal  to  n,  okay? So  if  you  think  about  the  efficiency,  then, if  we  think  about  the  thermal  efficiency of  this  cycle,  right? All  right.  Or  let's  start  with  W  net,  right? W  net  is  equal  to  Q  in  minus  Q  out, so  W  net  out,  right? My  Q  in  is  CP, T  three  minus  T  two. My  Q  out  is  CV  T  four  minus  T  one,  okay? So  the  thermal  efficiency  of  a  diesel  cycle, just  like  any  cycle,  W  net  out,  divided  by  Q. And  so  what  that  will  look  like  is CP  three  minus  two  minus  MCV, T  four  minus  T  one, all  of  that  divided  by M  CP  three  minus  T  two. You  could  do  some  simplifications, you  know,  to  that. In  the  interest  of  time,  I'll  spare you  for  it  and  get  to  the  message. Um  But  if  you  can  do  some  simplifications, and  what  you'll  end  up  with  is a  formula  for  the  efficiency that  looks  just  like  auto with  a  modification  term. So  if  the  cutoff  ratio  is  equal  to  one, you  recover  the  auto  cycle  efficiency,  okay? So  if  RC  equals  to  one, you'll  end  up  with  that. But  this  can  be  simplified down  to  that  there,  okay? So  if  we  want  to  compare, then  the  efficiency  of  an  auto  cycle  as a  function  of compression  ratio  of  both  cases, remember  this  is  auto  and the  typical  values  of  compression. For  diesel,  much  higher,  right? As  a  factor  of  two  higher. And  also  plotted  on  here  are the  different  cutoff  ratios  there  from  one, which  is  auto  excuse  me. Right, which  one  is  the  auto  and  on  down,  right? And  the  take  home  message is  that  by  getting  up  to these  higher  compression  ratios, you're  getting  efficiencies  that are  then,  you  know, well  above,  maybe  10%  above  what  you  have. And  with  that,  I'm  going  to  close. You  should  be  able  to  do  all  this  here. We  got  two  more  lectures in  the  gas  power  cycles. I'm  very  enthusiastic. Have  a  good  one.  Let  go.
