Alright,  I  got  310.  I'm  gonna  get  started. And  it's  so  loud.  All  right. So  we'll  finish  first  this  problem that  almost  completed  last  time, which  was  on  the  water  losses from  a  cooling  tower  for  a  power  plant. So  just  to  remind  you,  it  is  basically warm  water  that  comes out  of  a  surface  condenser. We  spray  into  here. The  same  time,  we're  allowing  air  under saturated  air  to  come  in  and  mix. This  water  evaporates,  right? There's  so  that  this  air  comes  out  saturated, it's  warmer  and  it  comes  out  saturated. And  then  this  is  cool  down  and  then  exits, and  the  point  is that  evaporation  has  consequences, and  you  need  to  make  it  up. So  basically,  you  need  to  add  water to  that  system  so  you  can  keep  on  going. And  where  we  left  it  last time  is  that  we  had  developed from  our  conservation  analysis, a  mass  flow  rate  of  the  air  coming  in. So  this  is  the  formula,  just  to  remind you  these  Omegas  here are  absolute  humidity  or  true  humidity. So  that's  the  ratio  of the  mass  of  water  in  the  air divided  by  the  mass  of  the  air. So  if  you  substituted  these  values  in, which  you  can  see  from  the  notebook, you'll  have  this  mass  flow  rate. The  first  question  we  were  asked  about  is the  volumetric  flow  rate to  the  volumetric  flow  rate. So  to  know  that,  you  need  to  know the  specific  volume  at stat  at  state  one  since  that's the  the  volumetric  fluid  that's  asked  for. So  this  can  be  determined from  the  information  given. So  with  the  information  given, you  have  the  pressure,  the  temperature, and  the  relative  humidity, that's  sufficient  information  to know  the  specific  volume. And  the  details  of  how  to  do  that electronically  are  in  the  notebook. So  you  substitute  those  values,  you  get  that. All  right?  We  come to  part  B,  which  is  in  the  makeup. So  the  makeup.  You  can look  at  this  as  two  ways,  no, so  one  can  be  about  knowing the  mass  floor  ate  in  M  dot three  minus  M  dot  four  is  the  M  makeup. This  is  equivalent,  and  we had  shown  last  time  to essentially  the  difference  in  or the  mass  floate  times the  difference  in  the  mass  content of  the  water  vapor  exiting versus  the  water  mass  entering. And  that's  expressed  the  followings. You  have  the  mass  flow  rate. And  that's  multiplied  by  again, Omega  two  minus  Omega  one, where,  again,  this  is  the  absolute  humidity. So  water  content, mass  of  the  water  in  the  air, divided  by  the  mass  of  their  at  state two  exiting  minus the  mass  of  the  water  in  the  air, divided  by  the  mass  of  the  year where  it's  entering. And  if  you  substitute  that, you'd  come  up  then  with  this  value. And  just  to  reiterate,  when  you're  looking at,  you  know,  mixtures  here, you  can  anticipate  that  two  pieces of  information  are  not  going  to  be enough  to  compute  the  thermonemic  properties like  we  did  for  pure  substances. In  this  case,  what  we need  to  know  is  the  pressure, the  temperature  and  the  relative humidity  And  again, from  the  function  that's  there,  that's enough  to  be  able  to  get  the  enthalpies, the  absolute  humidities,  and  so  on and  so  forth  with  it. Okay?  And  one  of the  students  had  commented  that  this  could  be sort  of  an  interesting  thing  for  one of  the  special  projects, so  they  wanted  to look  into  something  with  that. So  if  that's  of  interest,  you  know, feel  free  to  contact  me. Are  there  any  questions  about  this  before I  go  on  with  the  second  example? Nature's  giving  us  a  lot of  humidity  today,  right? We  don't  need  to  makeup,  right?  Okay,  great. So  again,  to  remind  you  we're  talking today  about  air  conditioning. So  the  next  one  we  can  talk  about is  a  process  that's  called  simple  cooling. So  in  this  simple  cooling  here, what  we  have  is  we  have  air  coming in  at  a  temperature, a  relative  this  45%  relative  humidity and  this  velocity. This  is  the  pressure,  and  we  have some  cooling  coils  that  are there  providing  the  the  cooling, and  what  we're  asked  to  determine  is the  temperature  of  the, let  me  look  at  this  really  quickly. So  we're  asked  to determine  the  exit  temperature, so  at  T  two  here. So  determine  First, T  two,  F  two? So  the  relative  humidity and  the  exit  velocity. So  velocity  two,  right? Why  do  we  think  that  the  velocity  in  this, if  we  basically  were  to  know, if  I  told  you  that  the  inlet  diameter, the  cross  sectional  area  is the  same  entering  and  exiting, why  do  you  think the  velocity  could  change  here? Could  be  a  difference  in  pressure. Interesting  thoughts.  I  get  pressures and  energy,  other  ideas. Okay,  we'll  learn.  Great. So  that's  what  we're  looking  to  determine. We're  looking  to  determine  there. A  right?  Other  information  that's  given. So  the  other  thing  that  we're  told  here  is that  this  is  a  pipe that  I'm  showing  and  this  pipe has  a  diameter. And  the  diameter  here  is  centimeters,  right? And  just  to  remind  you  for  P  one, P  one  being  1  atmosphere or  P  being  1  atmosphere. This  is  1o132  5  Pascals  there. Okay. Good.  The  other  piece  of  information  that's provided  is  the  amount of  cooling  that's  given. So  here  we  have  our  cooling  coils, and  so  the  excuse  me, the  Q  dot  term  here  so  the  amount  of  he removed  is  750  kilowatts/minute. Is  the  amount  of  cooling, the  rate  of  cooling  that we're  told,  right?  Good. Alright. So  the  first  thing  and we  start  off  with  doing  is, we're  just  going  to  compute  the properties  at  state  one. So  again,  for  competing  at  state  one, what  we  need  to  know where  the  three  pieces  of  information. So  we  know  that  our  t  is  equal  to  35  degrees C.  We  know  that  our  pressure  is  equal to  1012  5  pascals, and  we  know  that  the  relative  humidity here  is  equal  to  45%. And  what  do  we  determine  with  this? With  this?  We're  able  to  determine  H  one. So  the  hal  P  one, which  is  75.1  kilo  joules  per  kilogram. Very  good.  And  the  second  thing that  we  know  from  this  is  the  V  one. So  specific  volume. And  the  specific  volume  is  0.88. I  have  0.8  A  one  meters cubed  per  kilogram.  All  right? And  this  is  the  thing  we  need  to  pay attention  to  when  we're  talking about  changes  maybe  in  in  velocity. Yes,  please.  What  are  the  it.  Oh,  I'm  sorry. Thank  you  for  that.  Should  be  Kilo  j. That  should  be  Kijo. Thanks  for  catching  that. A  rate  of  a  rate. It's  acceleration  of  your  cooling. Yes.  Other  questions? Okay.  Um  Great. So  now  we  have  this.  We  know  the  state, and  we  can  start  to  go  on  with  our  balance, right?  So  for  our  balance. We  can  do  treat  this  as  a  steady  flow  device. And  so  on  the  left  side,  what's  the  e.in. So  we  have  the  mass  flow rate  of  the  entering. I'm  just  going  to  call  that  dot. So  we  have  m.h1,  the enthalp  the  mixture  entering. And  then  this  is  equal  to what's  exiting,  so  have  a  Q  dot. Out,  which  we're  told  though with  our  corrected  units  there. And  then  plus  the  dot  times the  enthalp  two  again, of  the  exiting  mixture. And  what  we  need  to  determine. So  if  we  want  to  get  things  like t  two  and  P  two, we  need  to  figure out  the  ent  P. At  least  the  first  step  is  we need  to  figure  out  the  enthalpies. You  rearrange  here.  You're  going  to  have two  then  equal  to  one  minus  q  dot divided  by  m  dot,  right? Okay. You  also  see  from  this  that  we  need  to  know what  the  dot  is,  right? So  for  the  M  dot,  we  can  look  and  say,  k, we  know  what  the  speed  is  entering,  right? We  know  what the  cross  sectional  area  is,  right? Pi  d  divided  by  two  squared. And  so  we  can  first  start  with  our  V  dot, so  our  V  dot  is  equal  to  the  velocity. Right?  That's  entering,  right? That  18  meters  a  second  times Pi  times  di  d  divided  by  two  squared. And  if  you  put  this  in,  what you'll  see  is  that  this  value  is 1.27  meters  cubed  per  second. Can  convert  this  with specific  volume  to  be  an  M  dot, so  that  our  M  dot  is  equal to  the  V  dot  divided  by  our  V  one. And  again,  our  V  one,  we've determined  right  here. If  we  take  the  1.27 and  we  divide  it  by  the  0.88, what  we're  going  to  get  is  a 1.44  kilograms/second. And  with  that,  you  can substitute  now  the.in,  right? So  you  can  put  the  M  dot  into here  with  the  Q  dot  and  the  H  one. And  so  out  of  this,  what  we  have  is  an H  two  is  equal  to 66.4  kilojoules  per  kilogram,  right? Cool. Alright,  so  now  what  we  know is  we  know  H  two,  right? So  with  S  two,  what  do  we  know? We  know  H  two,  and  we  know  P. And  this  is  not  enough,  right? So  this  is  basically  not enough  information  to  determine ultimately  what  we're  looking  for in  the  T  two  and  P  two. And  ultimately  to  get  velocity, we  need  to  know  what  little  V two  is  All  right. So  the  one  assumption  we  can  make  here. So  in  this  problem, if  it's  just  simple  cooling, so  what's  implied  here, and  you  can  also  see  this  in the  textbook  is  that  there  is no  dehumidification  being  done  here,  right? There's  no  condensation  being  done  here. So  if  I  don't  have any  water  that's  being  removed, what  assumption  do  you  think  that  you  could make  about  state  two  relative  to  State  one? That's  great.  Close.  Can  I merge  those  two  things  together? Yes. Yes. Omega  two  is  Omega  one. So  what  you  said  is  correct, and  then  another  way  to  write  that  would be  Omega  two  is  Omega  one. Exactly. Great.  So  we  have  this  now. So  with  this,  we  have  enough  information. So  if  we  went  now,  right  with  our  and  again, you  can  look  it up  with  the  solver  that's  there. If  we  put  in  this  H  two  and  we  put  in  P, and  we  put  in  Omega  two, out  of  this,  what  we  can  get  is  our  H  two. I'm  sorry,  um  quick  second  here. So  we  have  enthalp  and  pressure  in  and  Omega two  in.  That's  great. So  what  we  can  get  out  of  this  is  our  V  two, but  also  what  we  can  get  out  of  this  is the  t2t2  here  and  also  the  V  two. And  at  this  stage, this  is  simply  the  calling  Petro. Omega  one  Exactly. So  Omega  one  is  something  that could  be  printed  again, with  the  package  that  we have  there,  the  Pi  fluids, with  the  dot  notation,  it's  the  state  dot. Humidity  will  then  give  you  the  Omega. Yeah,  I'm  sorry,  I  missed  that  too. Okay.  Yeah.  So  this is  then  you  have  Omega  one  from  this. Omega  two  is  equal  to  Omega  one. And  then  from  this  package, then  we  get  specific  Volume two,  T  two  and  P  two. And  again,  so  our  first  questions were  T  two  and  P  two. T  two  from  this  is  equal  to  26.5  degrees  C, so  that's  part  A.  P  P  is  P  two, P  two  is  equal  to  73.1%. The  first  check  in  makes  sense,  right? So  you  have  here  a  drop  in  the  temperature. Obviously,  this  is  cooling. But  the  second  one,  this  is a  check  a  posteriori to  see  if  this  assumption  was  correct. So  here  we  see  that  P  two is  still  less  than  100%. Which  means  that  we  didn't  hit the  saturation  condition, which  means  that  we  didn't  have condensation  occurring  there,  right? So  this  means  we  were  good with  that  assumption  before. If  we  didn't  have  this  and they  came  out  at  100%, you  wouldn't  have  sufficient  information to  solve  the  problem  there, because  this  condition  wouldn't  be  valid, and  then  you  need some  more  information  from  it. The  other  thing  to  keep  in  mind  is as  you  decrease  the  temperature, um,  You  know,  let's  say  of  air, the  ability  to  hold  water  goes  down,  right? So  the  vapor  pressure.  1  second. The  vapor  pressure  for  water, more  or  less  depends  kind  of exponentially  on  temperature.  All  right? So  the  more  you  heat, you  can  have  a  lot  more  water. Alternatively,  as  we  cool, the  ability  to  hold,  you  know,  again, I'm  kind  of  speaking  in  qualitative  terms, but  the  amount  of water  that  the  air  can  hold  goes  down. So  this  makes  sense  that the  relative  humidity  here  is 73%  relative  to  the 45  that  we  started  with,  okay? Jason.  T. So  I'm  going  to  get  we'll  get  to that  right  now  exactly  with  part  C, which  is  the  last  question. Okay. So,  to  your  point about  the  mass  flots  coming  in  and  out being  being,  balanced,  right? So  what  we  can  say  is  that  we  have, if  we  want  to  know  what  the  volumetric  flow rate  at  the  exit  is,  right? This  is  going  to  be  equal  to the  M  dot  that  we know  the  mass  flow  rate  that  we  had from  from  the  beginning. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  multiplied  by the  specific  volume  at  the  exit. So  from  the  conservation  equation, all  we  know  is  the  mass  flow  rate in  and  out  is  the  same, but  volumetric  flow  rate  speeds. These  are  not  necessarily  things that  are  conserved,  right? So  it's  right,  mass  energy  momentum. These  are  the  three. Trifecta,  right?  So  you  know  this  one. We  know  V  two,  which  we  determine  from  here. And  so  if  you  substitute  those  values  in, which  you  would  have,  Okay, then  you  have  this  value,  right? When  we  want  to  get  to the  velocity  for  state  two,  right? This  is  going  to  be  the  volumetric  flow  rate divided  by  the  cross  sectional area  of  the  pipe,  right? So  V  dot  two  divided  by Pi  d  divided  by  two  squared,  right? So  we  determine  V  two, V  dot  two  divided  by the  cross  sectional  area  of  the  pipe. The  D  was  also  given,  right? That  was  the  30  30  centimeters  we  had  there. And  so  this  exit  velocity  is  then  going  to be  17.5  meters/second,  right? Yes,  please. Yeah,  so  what  changed? What  property  changed?  Temperature  changed. And  I  mean,  what  variables  do  we have  that  affect  the  speed that  I've  written  there. We  go,  Jason.  I.  Yeah, so  you  had  a  big  change  in  relative  humidity, right? For  sure.  Yeah. So  my  question  is  simpler. My  question  is,  simply, so  I  would  say  ignore  for a  second  the  left  hand  side  of  that, and  I'm  saying  simply  we  looked at  this  formula,  right? So  we  started  off  with  the  volumetric  floor. This  is the  mass  flor  rate  and  specific  volume. And  then  velocity  right  here  is  nothing  but specific  volume  divided by  this  constant  here. Bingo.  Bingo. You  basically  a  change  in the  specific  volume  or the  change  in  the  density  there. And  this  is  what  changes  to  your  point, a  lot  of  stuff  changes  though  when we  change  the  temperature,  right? So  obviously,  the  ability  to hold  more  water  has  changed. But  essentially  you  have  a  denser, you  basically  have a  denser  fluid  that's  moving  through. Okay?  Other  questions  about  this. Before  I  give  you  real  air  conditioning, which  we  don't  really have  in  these  buildings. Okay.  Cool.  The  air  is  so  good, you  don't  have  to  condition  it.  Alright. Yes.  So  one  of  the  interesting  things  in the  US  about  air  conditioning  is  basically, right  around  the  time of  the  Great  Depression. That  was  when  it  was  first,  like  proposed as  something  that  was  going  to  be like  a  disruptive  technology and  boost  GDP  and  sort  of  save  things. It  didn't  happen  at  that  time. Post  World  War  two,  they  started to  build  a  lot  of  houses for  the  veterans  that  came  back. And  as  and  they  really  needed  to  build  a  lot. And  so  they  looked  into  it, and  they  though,  Okay,  so, how  can  we  do  this  best? And  it  turns  out  that  with  homes, they  could  build  them  much  cheap. It  was  very  costly to  put  air  conditioning  in, what  we  call  central  air. But  if  you  did  it  at  the  beginning, it  sort  of  allowed  you  to  get  away  with the  fact  that  you  could  use sort  of  cheaper  materials. So  a  lot  of  homes  in  the  Midwest and  stuff  there  got  built. The  second  thing  is,  if  you  look  at the  South,  some  estimates, the  GDP  of  the  country doubled  when  they  did  it, you  basically  took  a  whole  bunch  of  land  that was  kind  of  unproductive  due  to  the  air, due  to  the  fact  that  humidity affected  processes  like  textiles. You  had  to  shut  things  down when  you  couldn't  control  humidity. And  so  when  they  introduced  these  things, you  could  have  much  more  stable conditions  and  just  run  more. So  you  could  basically  produce  more  with  it. So  there's  a  great  a  great  history to  it  there, and  a  lot  of  it  occurred. And  one  of  the  big  names,  as  I  mentioned before,  with  carrier,  alright? Okay,  so  this  is  an  example  here  then of  of  a  conditioning  system. This  is  sort  of  done  a  little  bit different  than  the  way  I  just showed  you  you  know, now  where  we  did  the  cooling. In  this  case,  we're  doing real  conditioning  is  where we  do  heat  transfer, but  we  also  alter water  content  deliberately. So  you  have  two  stages. A  lot  of  times,  it  would  be  three. So  if  you  think  about  a  cooling  system, what  you  would  do  is  you  do  that  step I  just  showed  you  before  you'd  cool? A  lot  of  times  you're  dehumifying, so  that  systems  at  100%  humidity. And  then  you  have  a  heater  afterwards,  right? Because  you  don't  want  air  coming  out  at 100%  humidity,  this  feels  terrible. It  feels  like  Florida,  Orlando  in  July, like,  very  muggy,  you  know,  with  it. So  you  normally  have  these  things  that are  done  in  pairs. It's  also  similar  with  heating. If  you  take  air,  and  you  just,  you  know, transfer,  you  know,  heat  into  it, you're  going  to  have  a  huge  drop in  relative  humidity. You  know,  you're  going  to basically  have  dry  skin,  right? It's  going  to  mess  with your  voice  and  talking. And  all  of  it,  there's  also,  like, very  strange  effects  on  stabilizing  viruses that  are  airborne  when  they're too  dry  or  too  wet. So  a  lot  of  great  care  goes into  setting  the  permissible, you  know,  relative  humidities you  can  have  in  a  room. But  the  point  is  that you  would  have  a  heater, right  where  you  transfer  heat  in, and  then  you  would  have  some  injection of  water  to  account  for  the  fact  that you've  reduced  the  relative  humidity with  the  heating,  ok?  Good. So  in  this  system,  as  I  said, so  we're  given  the  initial  state here  where  we  have  complete  information, right? I've  got  a  temperature.  I've  got a  relative  humidity  and  I've  got  a  pressure. So  I  know  everything  that's  entering. I  know  the  pressure,  the  temperature, and  the  humidity  at  the  exit. So  at  the  entrance  and  the  exits, I  can  tell  you  the  enthalps, the  Omegas  and  all  of  that. You  have  complete  information  about the  enthalpy  of  the  water  that's  injected. In  this  case,  instead  of  atomizing  droplets, which  is  a  common  way  to  do it  here  in  this  problem, they're  bringing  in  steam. But  you  know,  the  quality  of  this  is  one because  it's  saturated  vapor and  you  know  the  temperatures. You  know  that  enthalpy  coming  in. What  you  don't  know  is  state  two  here. So  essentially,  what  is  the  enthalpy  after? The  heating  coil  with  this, you  don't  know  how  much  heat You  don't  know  how  much  heat you've  that  you've  added  to  it. And  the  questions  here,  what  we're  asked  is, we  would  like  to  know  in  Part  A, what  is  T  two. So  the  temperature  when  it leaves  the  heating  section, I'll  label  this  all  with  numbers, and  we  would  like  to  know  two  when  it's leaving  the  heated  section  for  Part  B. What  we'd  like  to  know  is  the  rate. So  basically  the  Q  in, from  the  coils  there  and  in  Part  C,  Well, you  would  like  to  know  is the.in  for  the  saturated  vapor  coming  in. And  we  would  like  this  in  units of  kilograms  per  minute. So  let  me  just  draw  the  section  and then  label  the  points. So  in  my  version  here,  I've  got  this. I've  got  my  heating  coil here  that's  coming  up. This  is  my  inlet  at  state  one. This  is  my  state  two. I've  got  my  water  injection, my  steam  injection  Here. And  then  this  is  my  stat  my  state  three. And  the  variant  that  I'm  going  to  make here  is  instead  of  solving this  at  P  equals  1  atmosphere. In  this  variant,  I'm  going  to  say  that the  pressure  everywhere  is equal  to  95,000  KPA, so  slightly  below  below  atmospheric,  right? Cool.  I  am  not  having  a  day  today. Okay.  I'm  having  a  day  today. Okay. So  95,000  pascals  is 95,000  pascals  is  the  value of  the  pressure  there.  All  right? And  the  rest  of  that  I  see.  All  right. So  the  first  step then  is  right  to  define  your  state  one. So  for  your  stad  one,  to have  your  complete  information, we  have  our  function  of  our  pressure, right  to  have  our  P  is  our  95  KPA. You  have  T  one,  which  is  equal  to your  ten  degrees  Celsius, and  you've  got  your  P  one, which  is  equal  to  70%. Right?  Then  as  an  output  here, what  we  get  is  we  get  our  H  one, We  get  our  Omega  one, and  we  get  our  specific  volume  one,  right? And  since  we  know  the  specific  volume one  and  we  know  the  volumetric  flow  rate, what  it  means  is  that  we know  our  mass  flow  rate because  our  m  dot  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  v.in  there. And  then  this  is  going  to  be  divided by  the  V  one. And  so  if  you  substitute  in  these  values, what  you  will  have  for  your mass  flow  rate  is  0.67 kilograms  per  per  second there  for  the  mass  flow  rate  of  the  year. And  I  think  what  I  will  do  to  make the  notation  good  is  I  will  call that  A,  like  that. At  State  two,  just  like in  the  other  problem.  All  right. So  if  we  talk  now  about  State  two, State  two, we  haven't  done  any  water  addition. So  what  does  it  mean  about  state  two? What  do  we  know? Say  one  more  time.  Still  have  the  same  Dt. We  still  have  the  same  D.  That's  true. What  else  do  we  know  about  State  two? Jackson?  A  Omega  e.  There  we  go. So  right. So  Omega  two  is  equal to  your  Omega  one  because  you  haven't done  you  haven't  done any  water  addition  to  it. And  again,  the  P  here  is  still  equal  to the  95  KPA,  All  right? But  we  need  one  more  piece  of  information. So  we  don't  have  enough  information  here  to be  able  to  figure  out what  the  T  two  and  the  P  two  are. Yes,  please. 95.  So  the  thing is  that  in  the  screenshot that  I  have  from  this  in  the  textbook, this  is  the  figure  that's given  for  a  different  problem. And  in  that  problem,  what  they tell  you  to  kind  of  trick  you  and make  it  a  little  more  difficult  is to  switch  it  to  95  KPA. And  the  reason  why  they  do this  in  the  textbook  is because  if  you  try  to  read a  psychometric  chart  that  they  give  you, the  psychometric  chart  is  four. One  ATM. And  so  if  you  go  to  that  295, it's  a  little  bit  a  lot  more  difficult. But  the  point  is  that with  the  electronic  tables and  the  way  we  do  it  here,  you  don't  care. Like,  you  just  put  95,000 instead  of  one  oh  1325, and  it's  easy.  So  that's  the  reason. And  yeah.  Okay.  So  question,  Mark. For  that,  for  state  three.  All  right. So  for  state  three,  we  know, again,  our  P,  our  P  is  95  KPA. The  temperature  T  is equal  to  the  20  degrees  C  there. And  we  know  that  the  relative  humidity  fee is  equal  to  60%  there. All  right?  And  so  that's  all  good. And  so  what  we  get  out  of  this here  is  we  get  our  H  three. So  our  enthalpy  at  state  three, and  we  also  get  our  Omega  three  there. And  so  with  these  Omegas, what  we  can  start  to  do  is  we  can  get into  the  mass  balance, so  we  can  actually  answer the  third  part  first  on the  weight  to  the  other  ones. So  if  we  do  a  mass balance  with  the  water  flow, we  can  say,  Okay,  we  have  dot,  A, so  the  mass  flu  rate  of  the  air  times the  water  content  of  the  air, Omega  one,  plus M  dot  water,  which  we're  injecting. So  we're  injecting  water in  there  must  be  equal  to the  mass  flow  rate  of the  air  times  Omega  times  Omega  three. Right?  If  we  rearrange, what  we  can  get  is  that the  M  of  the  water  is  equal  to  m dot  a  Omega  three  minus  Omega  one.  All  right. And  just  to  check  for  a  second. So  we've  got  Omega  three. We've  got  the  mass  flow  rate. And  we  have  got  Omega  one. So  we  have  everything  we need  to  determine  this  value. So  if  you  substitute  those  values  in, what  you  would  have  is  0.14 I  have  0.149  kilograms/minute, and  that  was  in  the  unit  that  was requested  for  the  problem. So  that's  part  C.  Part  C.  Right?  Great. Okay.  And  now  what  we  can  do  is  we  can do  a  control  volume  analysis  here. So  we  can  look  at  basically  here  to  to  here. And  so  for  this,  we  can  say, okay,  let's  look  at  what's  entering. So  we  have  m.ah2  is what's  entering  into  that  control  volume plus  the  water, that's  also  entering  in  M  dot  water  times  H. I  want  to  clarify  this  because  I think  Sam  had  brought  this  up  last  time, and  I  actually  now realize  I  hadn't  used  this  notation, but  it's  a  notation  that  the  book  uses. So  if  an  M  dot  W  times  H  G.  All  right. What  is  H  G  as  an  aside  here? So  H  G,  right? This  is  what  applies  for  water,  right? So  you  would  say  that  this  let's  say this  H  G  is  a saturated  vapor  at  some  temperature, some  temperature  and  some  quality, and  for  a  saturated  vapor, the  quality  is  equal  to  one. Right? So  when  I'm  speaking about  this  problem,  I'm  saying,  right, this  is  the  enthalpy  of  my  vapor. Alright?  It's  a  saturated  vapor, as  I'm  told  in  the  problem,  at a  temperature  of  100  degrees  C. So  you  would  go  either  to  your  textbook  or  to the  IP  WS  or  whatever,  you'd  say, Okay,  you  know,  the entop  at  this  temperature, and  it's  a  saturated  vapor  x  equals  one. And  in  the  book  notation, what  they  do  is  they  just  write  this  as H  G.  And  the  reason  is  that, if  you  go  back  to  how  we  had first  looked  at  pure  properties  and  stuff, we  had  talked  about,  you  know, F,  Flucykit,  right? German  for  fluid,  you  know, or  basically  liquid  there, and  then  G  for  gas,  there. All  right. So  you  had  the  enthalpies  when  it was  a  saturated  liquid, the  enthalpy  when  it  was  a  saturated  vapor. And  that's  what  we're  talking  about  when  we write  H  G  is  that this  is  write  the  I  guess  say  it  another  way. The  entropy  at  this  temperature like  this  is  then  by definition  equal  to  H  G,  right? So  the  enthalpy  at  this  temperature, and  x  equals  one  is according  to  the  books  definition H  G.  And  if  it  was the  same  thing  and  x  equals  20, this  would  be  H  F.  Okay? And  the  difference  between,  right? H  F  G  then  is  equal  to  H  G  minus  H  F,  right? So  that's  an  aside,  but  I think  maybe  it's  an  important  one  because  I didn't  cover  that  apparently very  well  earlier,  right? So,  coming  back  to  our  energy  balance, we  have  the  enthalpy  of the  air  entering,  m.a2. We  have  the  enthalpy  of  the  water  entering, which  is  M  W  H  G, and  there's  your  definition  of  H G.  And  then  this is  going  to  be  equal  to  what's  exiting. And  what's  exiting  is  at  state  three,  right? So  then  we  have  the  air,  H  H  three. H  three  there.  And  so  we can  rearrange  and  solve  for  H  two, which  is  one  piece of  information  we  would  like. And  so  this  H  two  then  is  going  to  be H  three  minus  M  dot  water  HG divided  by  m  m  dot  a. All  right. Good.  HG,  we  can  determine, right  from  the  property  table. So  if  I  come  back  here, and  I  erase  this,  right? So  the  temperature  here  is  100  right? Degree  C,  that's  the  quality. And  so  from  the  IPS, which  you  can  look  up  in  the  notebook  there, I  can  know  what  my  HG  is. So  that's  done,  right?  The  M  dot  air. We  already  We  already  know. And  the  H  three,  we've  already figured  out  from  State  three,  right? We  knew  H  three  here. So  with  this,  we're  able  to determine  H  two,  right? And  also,  we've  solved  for  M,  the  MW, we  had  solve  for  part  C  here. The  MW,  we  also  know. Means  we  can  solve  for  H  two, the  H  two  I've  determined  to  be 0.7  kilojo  per  kilogram,  right? So  now  we  know  H  two. And  with  H  two  known, now  we  can  come  back  to  our  state  two. Then  we  can  say  now  we  know  H  two. And  so  with  this,  we  have complete  information. And  from  here  now  we  can determine  our  T  two  is  equal  to. Our  T  two  is  equal  to  19.3  degrees  C, and  our  feet  two  is  equal  to  38.4%. And  so  we  can  compare that  with  what  we  had  before,  right, We  were  entering  with  ten  degrees  C and  70%  humidity. And  after  that  heat  addition, the  temperature  went  up,  that  makes  sense, and  the  humidity  went  down, which  also  makes  sense  because we  don't  have  any  water  addition. Happening.  And  this  is  the  first  time, I  think  in  the  solving, right  before,  we  would  do like  pressure  temperature  and  humidity, but  you  can  also  do  enthalpy  pressure and  humidity  as  an  input, just  as  we  had  done  for  our  AP  WS  to  learn other  state  properties,  right? Good.  So  that  takes  care  of  the  Part  A. If  we  now  come  to  the  Part  B. So  for  Part  B,  we want  to  know  what  the  Q  dot  n  is. The  Q  dot  n  is  pretty  straightforward,  right? This  is  a  steady  flow  a  steady  flow  device. So  we  have  q  dot  n is  equal  to  r  m  times  what? Say  it  again,  Petro? H  two  minus  one.  Exactly.  All  right. And  we  know  H  two,  and  we  knew  H  one. And  so  if  you substitute  those  values  in,  right? We  k  the  m  dot  a,  the  H two  and  the  H  one  we  had  before. So  your  heat  transfer  rate in  the  units  that  they  wanted  is 383  kilos  per  minute  there,  right? Okay. And  so  that's  it  for  this,  You  know, and  now  that  we've  gotten  to the  state  now,  you  know, we've  done  things  you've  done  things with  cool  Prop  as  a  package. You've  done  things  with  IP  WS. And  this  one,  what we're  using  there  is  the  one that's  called  Pi  fluids. As  I  mentioned  before,  what  Pi  fluids  is  is Pi  fluids  is  essentially a  wrapper  of  cool  Prop. So  these  things  are interchangeable  in  a  sense. This  is  just  like  this  is a  more  simplified  and easier  syntax  to  work  with  cool  Props. I'm  using  Pi  fluids  and  this. But  as  I  mentioned  before,  we  went  in, and  we  were  looking up  enthalpy  properties  with a  package  or  tables  that  were outside  of  Cool  Prop  in  Pi  fluids. And  so  for  water,  right,  we  were doing  everything  with  IAP  WS. You  can  go  and  double  check. I  mean,  cool  Prop  can  also  handle  water. It's  just  more  difficult  to  work  with. And  in  this  example  here,  you  can  look  at  it, and  you'll  see  that  the  enthalpy properties  of  pure  water, which  you  can  determine  with  more difficult  syntax  here  will  exactly match  the  tables  in your  book  and  also  with  the  IAPWS. Package.  And  I  mentioned  that  because  when we  get  into  the  project  and  stuff,  I  mean, you're  adults,  you  can  make  a decisions  about  which  ones  are sort  of  easier  or  more  ideal  to  use. Okay?  Any  questions  about  this? I  have  no  idea.  Honestly,  honestly, it  gets  even  weirder  in  cooling. They  usually  talk  about  tons  of  cooling. What  is  tons  of  cooling, tons  of  cooling  is  like, how  much  ice  could  you  produce  in an  hour  with  the equivalent  amount  of  heat  out,  right? So  the  tropa  solidification  time. You  know,  there  is  then, you  know,  related  with the  heat  transfer  to give  you  like  tons  of  ice. I  don't  know.  Yeah,  like  I  said, I'm  just  sticking  with  the  book  problem  here in  the  units  that  they  had.  Other  questions? We  are,  like  rolling  today.  Alright. I  like  out  of  material. You  guys  usually  ask  a  lot more  questions  with  it. So  I  mean,  the  take  home  message, as  I  said,  on  this  is  it  a  break  in  the  rain? No,  it  just  sounds  quieter.  Alright. Is  that,  yeah,  this  is  basically, right  with  the  air  conditioning  systems. You  always  have sort  of  two  really  three  elements, right? So  usually  for  conditioning  of a  cooling  or  two  elements. You  have  like  a  cooling,  and  then  a  heating, or  in  this  case,  a  heating was  sort  of  a  water  addition  in  there. And  really,  in  conditioning  here, it's  really  not  just  temperature. I  mean,  historically,  people  have talked  about  that,  putting  it  at  set  point, but  a  lot  of  knowledge  has come  in  and  shown  us  things like  85  Fahrenheit  in  a  room can  be  perfectly  fine if  you  get  the  humidity  right. And  so,  the  other  thing  too, is  if  you  look  at  this, this  is  kind  of  an  insane  thing,  right? You  cool  something  to  get  into  a  temperature. So  you  use  a  lot  of  energy  to  like  cool, and  like  condensing  out  water is  like  a  lot  of  energy, 2,200  ils  a  gram. And  then  you  go  in  and  you  inject heat  into  it,  right? That  sounds  kind  of  like  ridiculous. It  seems  like  you're  competing  with  yourself. So  people  now  look  at strategies  that  are  not necessarily  thermal  base. They're  looking  at  stuff  like  desiccation, where  you  have  materials  like  sugar  and  salt, which  are  what  we  call  hygroscopic. And  these  ones  can  strip out  water  vapor  out,  right? I  don't  know  if  you've  ever  looked at  sugar  you  know, coffee,  might  be  too  young  for  coffee. But  when  you  go  and  you take  sugar  out  of  it,  it's  like  clumpy. And  the  reason  that  it's clumpy  is  because  it's  taken  in water  vapor  to  it  or  these  little  packets. When  electronics deliver  their  silica  gel  pack, silica  is  hygroscopic,  and  it  takes  it  in. And  so  these  are  things  that  people  seriously look  at  then  that  are  thermodynamically, potentially  more  efficient at  controlling  humidity  than, than  what  I'm  showing  you  with  this. So  that's  some  like  the  ongoing  research nowadays  is  into  it, and  maybe  even  a  step  further, more  interesting  is  that  those  systems  where you're  moving  a  lot  of air  and  you're  taking  humidity  out, People  also  look  seriously  at  putting materials  there  to  take carbon  dioxide  out,  right? So  when  you  talk  about  sequestration, the  main  problem  with  sequestration  is  that, you  want  to  take  CO  two  out, but  you're  measuring  it  in  like  per  million, like,  tiny,  tiny  quantities. So  if  you  want  to  remove  it,  you have  to  move  a  tremendous  amount  of air  over  these  materials  to  remove  it. And  so  people  think, like,  Well,  if  we're  already moving  tremendous  amount  of air  through  vents  like  that, why  don't  we  take  advantage  of it?  We  put  these  materials  in. They  can  absorb  it  and  do  it. But  it's  a  tremendous  problem. There  are  some  systems  like  here, they  have  a  project  with  Zemans. When  I  was  at  at  Taha  before, they  had  a  company  called  Clem  Works. It's  like  $1,000,000,000  fund  raising, and  all  they  do  is  fans, and  they  blow  air  over materials  that  absorb  CO  two. And  that  is  like  raising  money. And  that  is  like  that's like  where  we're  at,  right? In  terms  of  some  of  the  And  it sounds  like  You  know,  I  mean,  to  me, it  sounds  kind  of  I don't  want  to  be  harsh,  but  I  mean, it  sounds  kind  of  ridiculous, like  crazy  that  that's  like a  presently  thought  about technology  for  moving  it. But  yeah,  this  is  where  we're  at  with  it. But  I  think  that  like the  other  systems  that  I  mentioned before  in  the  heat  pumps  and  what's  done, it's  a  bit  of  a  renaissance  at the  moment  for  those  technologies, and  also  with  HVAC  two, again,  looking  at  the  potential for  not  just,  you  know, improving  how  we  manage  with the  humidity  and  what we  know  in  terms  of  comfort, but  also  trying  to  leverage the  fact  that  you're  moving  so  much  air. Maybe  at  the  same  time,  you can  think  about,  you  know,  removing  other, you  know,  stuff  like  CO  two from  the  system,  okay? With  that,  I'm  going  to  close  it 7  minutes  early  because  you  were  all  amazing, and  I  got  through  three  problems. On  Monday,  All  right  Monday, we're  going  to  be  here  in  class, and  I'm  not  going  to  be  talking. So  Monday,  we're  going  to  be  in  here. We're  going  to  be working  with  like  the  project. So  we  have  two  lectures  set  aside where  we  can  do  and spend  time  and  work  with  it. The  idea  is  that  obviously  you  pair up  with  somebody there  if  you  haven't  already. You  don't  have  to,  but  I highly  encourage  it.  Pick  a  problem. I'll  be  here  at  class  time, maybe  with  one  of  the  GSIs  or  the  reader, so  you  can  ask  us  questions  about  it. The  idea  is  that  we  can do  this  very  efficiently. The  next  one,  so  then  we're  off, right  Thanksgiving,  Enjoy  with  the  family. And  then  the  following  Monday, we'll  do  that  one  more  time. Try  to  get  this  thing  up  into  game  shape, Maybe  talk  with  another  group. And  hopefully,  at  that  point, you're  just  ready  to submit  and  be  done  with  it. Okay?  So  you  shouldn't  have  to  stress  too much  with  this  over the  holidays,  really  enjoy. And  I  know  I  had  promised  you  that Wednesday  we'd  be  done  with  the  grading. O  GSIs  and  our  readers  are  working  very  hard. They  themselves  take  exams  just like  and  have  a  lot of  deadlines  and  a  lot  of  stress. So  they're  working  very  hard  to  get  it  right. We  could  be  very  fast  and  wrong. They  want  to  be  correct,  though. So  we'll  be  working  very  hard  today  and tomorrow  to  finish  that  and  and  upload. I  don't  want  you  to  be  again stressing  over  the  holiday  with  it. Okay? So,  if  you  have any  questions  I'm  up  here,  but  thank  you.
